The Herald Danai Chitakasha-Special Correspondent RECENTLY I was reading an article about the most annoying fans in the English Premiership football. I could have taken it more seriously if the survey had not put Arsenal at No. 2, sandwiched between Liverpool at No. 1 and Manchester United at No. 3. This makes the it susceptious. There is nothing you will not hear these days! But let me use it for purposes of my discussion here! The survey put West Ham fans at No.10 . Why would the “Happy Hammers “ fans be annoying, you might wonder? Well according to the researchers, West Ham fans, apart from claiming that their team is the Academy of Football, also boast that their team won the World Cup for England in 1966! Sir Geof Hurst scored a hat-trick in the final, Martin Peters scored the second goal and captain Bobby Moore lifted the trophy! These were all Hammers! For this they claim the bragging rights and for this some fans find them irritating! While this might be the case, there is, however, a universal acceptance that Sir Bobby Moore, one regarded as West Ham’s best player was the real deal! All English fans have the utmost respect for him. And two weeks ago before West Ham’s match against Nottingham Forest, the fans at the London Stadium showed their appreciation of the departed legend. It has been 30 years since his death but they have not forgotten. Neither has the club. His daughter and grandchildren were invited to the match and walked on the pitch before kick-off! They all wore the Hammers jerseys with the iconic No. 6, the legend’s jersey number. A small gesture, yes, but it shows a deep appreciation of the long-serving captain (he captained the club for 10 years). Which brings me back home to Zimbabwe and allow me to remind the powers that be at my favourite side CAPS United… you can also do this and it does not cost much! Imagine on the anniversary of Joel Shambo’s death you invite the family! What about Shacky Tauro, the man who was never tempted to leave CAPS United despite the riches on offer at Black Rhinos, for example, because “anga aine chitsidzo neCAPS United!”, according to Bla Stanford ‘’Stix’’ Mutizwa. Can we not invite the family for a match on the anniversary of his death? The list of departed legends is long especially in Zimbabwe but there are a those whose football lives are embedded in the football narrative of club. Clubs must once in a while honour these! It shows appreciation and it keeps the institutional memory alive. It connects the younger generation of fans with the clubs’ rich past! Did I mention ‘’Kode’’ (Joe Mugabe)? He is another club legend who we should never forget! The West Ham gesture opened my eyes to this idea… vakuru vakati “kugara nhaka kuona dzevamwe!” It can be done for indeed the good that men do must live after them, and be remembered. And yes, we can also invite the living. These gestures must not be taken lightly, especially in Zimbabwe where the young fans have totally disconnected themselves from local clubs. Shambo or Tauro’s grandson invited for a ceremony… what effect will this have on the young lad? He or she will connect with the club! This is free advice Cde President Farai Jere, pass the message to Mudhara Magitare (Bernard Marriot of Dynamos) and all who run our clubs. Connect with the Heroes both the living and the departed! Be blessed! Sisonke!!