The Herald Herald Reporter Children countrywide yesterday joined the rest of the world in celebrating the International Children’s Day of Broadcasting, by conducting special programmes on TV and radio stations. The International Children’s Day of Broadcasting provides children with a unique platform to communicate with many audiences. It was launched by UNICEF in 1991 to encourage broadcasters worldwide to create awareness on children’s issues. Essentially, it is a day when broadcasters allow children to be part of the programming process, to talk about their hopes, dreams and exchange ideas with their peers on issues affecting them. The theme for this year’s celebrations is: “More money for primary education”. Broadcasters yesterday opened the airwaves to children for this year’s celebrations and are also going to produce documentaries that highlight the plight of children. Many children from various schools countrywide visited various TV and radio stations where they conducted programmes. At National FM, there were children from Harare Central Prisons Primary School. In an interview, Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services (ZPCS) spokesperson, Chief Superintendent Meya Khanyezi, said they had been invited by ZBC.“We have been invited here to celebrate the International Children’s Day of Broadcasting as Harare Central Prisons primary school. This school is attended by members’ children and others within the area. “So, ZBC’s National FM invited us here so that the children will have an understanding of how broadcasting operates, among various other issues,” she said. Chief Supt Khanyezi said she hopes that the children that went to the radio station will share with others, the knowledge they obtained. Posting on their Facebook page, Kindercare-Zimbabwe Nurseries & Preschools also said, “Today is International Children’s Day of Broadcasting. International Children’s Day of Broadcasting aims to promote broadcasters around the world to pay more attention to kids programs. They should air quality programming about and for children and, the most important, allow children to be a part of programming process. “Thousands of broadcasters around the world participate in this day and celebrate it. They look for ways of celebration that would be unique and special as children themselves.” Radio Zimbabwe also hosted various childrens’ programming yesterday.