The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter NGEZI Platinum Stars have had an ideal pre-season with the Mhondoro team winning all the six friendly matches they have played. The ambitious Mhondoro-based Castle Lager Premiership football outfit also had a unique team-bonding exercise in the resort town of Victoria Falls. And defender Carlos Mavhurume has every reason to be optimistic about his team’s chances of finally winning the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title this coming season. The Takesure Chiragwi charges are one of the favourites to win the crown in the 2023 term which kicks off next weekend. Chiragwi has retained the bulk of the squad which did duty for the side that finished fourth last season adding only three new faces-Gareth Madhake, Marlvin Gaki and Claude “Pokello” Mapako. Of course, they off-loaded more including Denver Mukamba, Tendai Matindife, Dereck Bonna and Last Jesi while loaning the trio of Tapiwa Sibanda, Wayne Makuva and Ariel Makopa to Triangle. And Mavhurume, who had a dream debut for the club last season having joined from CAPS United, believes the platinum miners have what it takes to win the title this coming season. “It’s obviously very tricky to say something in certain terms at a time when the ball is yet to roll in the 2023 season. “But, what I know is as Ngezi Platinum Stars, we are a group that is very hungry for success. The mentality is out of this world, everyone is just positive,” said Mavhurume. “If I look at the personnel that we have at Ngezi Platinum at the moment, well, I see positivity and capability in everyone. “There is no reason why I should doubt our capacity as a team. Everyone is focused and ready to give their all. The stories that we are sharing as players, well, you can feel the atmosphere is very positive. “Each of the players is keen to go out there and fight for the badge. We have a very supportive leadership and we feel it is high time we return the favour. We are willing to put our heads on the wall just to protect the badge. “We should win as many matches as we can. The secret is to approach every match that we are going to play with a positive mind. That way, we can stand a chance of winning as many games as possible.” The former Herentals player said Ngezi Platinum’s campaign should also be pinned on solid home performance. “As a starting point, I think we should turn Baobab Stadium into a fortress. We shouldn’t allow any opponent to come out of our home ground with anything. I think, if we manage to restrict opponents at our own home, we can give ourselves a huge chance in terms of the title. “Successful campaigns are built on solid home performances. Even if you look at those teams who won the league title for the past 10 years, they have had good runs at their home grounds. Dynamos between 2011 and 2014 were virtually unplayable at Rufaro, Chicken Inn did very well at Luveve in 2015 and so did CAPS United at the National Sports Stadium in 2016. “FC Platinum have also made it very difficult for opponents to win a match at their Mandava home over the past four seasons they have been champions. We can do the same by making it very difficult for opponents to come out with something at Baobab. “But that is not to say we should then relax when we play away from home. We have to fight as hard as we can to collect as much points away as we should at home. A solid all-round performance will see us through and I am glad everyone shares the same vision at the team.”  Ngezi Platinum open their season with an away date against Bulawayo Chiefs next week.