The Herald Tadious Manyepo
Sports Reporter CAPS United have this season been paying particular attention to depth with the Castle Lager Premiership football giants adding yet another highly-rated goalkeeper — Bhekimpilo Ncube — into their fold. The Green Machine endured a lot of challenges both on and off the field of play last season but everything seems to be just in place going into the new term. Already Makepekepe have added an array of big names to their 2023 roster with Kelvin Madzongwe, Adrian Silla, Godknows Murwira and Innocent Zambezi all part of the newcomers at one of the title favourites this year. And coach Lloyd Chitembwe has added a top goalkeeper Ncube, who has seen action with South African side Jomo Cosmos, to a department which was one of the weakest links in Makepekepe’s cause last season. With Tatenda Munditi leaving for ZPC Kariba, CAPS United were left with only Tonderai Mateyaunga, himself a target for newly-promoted Simba Bhora. But the team have since signed Ashley Reyners from Manica Diamonds with the coming in of Ncube expected to add steel to the department. The 31-year-old shot-stopper said he is eager to play a leading role at Makepekepe this coming season. “I should say that I started my football career at Highlanders juniors while I was still at school. When I completed my Ordinary Levels I went to join Jomo Cosmos Academy in South Africa and developed my craft until I was promoted into the first team at the age of 19,” said Ncube. “I have also played for several teams in Zimbabwe including Chicken Inn, Bulawayo Chiefs, Yadah and Bulawayo City. “I have been going rounds but I think this season, I should get my big breakthrough in the league. CAPS United is a big team and they can give me the exposure that I need the most at this juncture of my career. “I know there are very good goalkeepers on the team and we get along very well. We support each other very well and the environment is very good. I am looking forward to playing as many games as I can at Makepekepe. “They are a big team and I am hoping to finally announce my arrival at the big stage this season. “I actually love CAPS United and playing for them can only make me a better player and a better human being. “I am ready to deliver for Makepekepe going forward. “I am going to throw all I can to help them achieve their goals for the season and next. I am here for at least two years.” Ncube’s agency, Keiz Sports Management, who have a sound relationship with CAPS United, have hailed the move. Keiz Sports Management director, Kudakwashe Garufu, said they are looking forward to seeing Ncube play a big role in CAPS United’s bid to win trophies this season. “Ncube’s ability is beyond doubt. He is a big goalkeeper and once he nails a spot, we know what he is capable of doing going forward,” said Garufu. “We have been tracking his progress for a long time and we hope, finally, he will make his breakthrough in the local Premiership.”