The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter MIDFIELDER King Nadolo could join an exclusive company of players who have turned out for all the three traditional giants in the local football scene — Dynamos, Highlanders and CAPS United — should he, as highly anticipated, complete a move to the Green Machine. The 27-year-old played for Bosso between 2014 and 2018 before he spent three years on-loan at Dynamos from his parent club TelOne. Nadolo has already left the Glamour Boys upon the expiration of his temporary stay with new Dynamos coach Herbert “Jompano” Maruwa already having made provisions in his new-look squad. The talented midfielder appears to have nailed it at Makepekepe whom he has been training with for a couple of weeks. He has impressed the Green Machine gaffer Lloyd Chitembwe with negotiations having already been opened between the Harare giants and TelOne for yet another loan deal for the Warriors trialist. Nadolo’s contract with TelOne runs out at the end of next year and the two teams could as well settle for a loan deal. CAPS United chief executive officer Charlie Jones yesterday told The Herald Nadolo’s deal could be sealed as early as today. He also revealed that besides Nadolo, another midfielder Tafadzwa Rusike is also expected to pen a deal of his own as Makepekepe eye to redeem themselves in the upcoming season.  “I can tell you that negotiations for King Nadolo’s deal are ongoing in earnest. We are actually finalising the deal, maybe by tomorrow (today) we would have sealed everything,” said Jones. “Nadolo, just like Tafadzwa Rusike, has been training with us and there is no doubting the two players’ quality. “They will bring loads of experience in the team and add a lot in terms of value and maturity.” TelOne president Lloyd Mtetwa confirmed the talks and said they will not stand in the player’s way if there is a club interested in his services, although he didn’t mention the team was CAPS United. Nadolo delayed inking a deal with any club in the top-flight, The Herald understands, deliberately as TelOne were hoping they would be promoted into the league via the boardroom.  TelOne have a complaint pending at ZIFA in which they accused Sheasham, who pipped them to PSL promotion, of using an ineligible player in the ZIFA Central Region league last year. However, ZIFA have taken eternity to decide on the matter, whose hearing has now been set for tomorrow.  It’s a genuine case, in a normal football setting, whose outcome could affect even the PSL fixtures which were published this week.  But, the lengthy delay which the complainant sees as deliberate in a way, has extinguished the last hopes TelOne had of making a rebound into the PSL. Even in the event that Sheasham are found guilty, they have all the right to appeal while getting the chance to continue playing Premiership football. The lack of decisiveness and gross delay in key processes at administrative levels has been pointed as one of the main plagues killing the growth of football in the country. It’s not only the TelOne case that has been in ZIFA’s in-tray, as yet another key issue involving Herentals, Dynamos and FC Platinum will only be heard tomorrow. Herentals are accusing champions FC Platinum of fraudulently using their player Juan Mutudza last season. Mutudza was reportedly fraudulently cleared to play for FC Platinum by Dynamos where he was on loan against the statutes governing transfers. Although Herentals, who hold that Mutudza had a contract with them running out on November 30 last year, engaged FC Platinum over the matter, the Zvishavane team remained adamant and the midfielder played a key role in delivering a fourth straight title to FC Platinum.  It’s a case which, in a normal football environment should have been treated with the urgency it deserves but its initial hearing is only tomorrow, with only a few days left before a new season kicks off. Given the slim chances TelOne have on making a rebound to the PSL, Nadolo may find himself playing for CAPS United this coming season. And he will become the seventh player in the history of the domestic Premiership to play for all the three traditional giants. Lovemore “Magents” Ncube, Rodrick Mutuma, Stephen Alimenda, Marshal Machazane, Stewart “Shutto” Murisa and Valentine Ndaba are the only players to have seen action at all the three biggest teams on land.  Goalkeeper Munyaradzi Diya was also once in the books of all the three giants. The arrival of Nadolo will add to the depth that Makepekepe have going into the new term. With financial demons that affected Makepekepe’s performance last season seemingly behind the team, the 2016 champions look poised to challenge for honours this season. Coach Lloyd Chitembwe said he has a squad complement of two teams which are highly competitive. “We have started training games in earnest but it’s in-house. I think this time around we have two very competitive teams. As a coach, you can never be entirely happy but well, I am satisfied with the personnel I have at the moment,” said Chitembwe.