The Herald BEIJING. – A motion to introduce sex education into kindergartens and compile teaching materials in line with China’s national conditions, which will be put forward at the upcoming annual two sessions, has sparked widespread discussion on social media, with experts saying that sex education that respects the laws of natural science and Chinese social values will break education models based on Western ideology and values. “Sex education is an indispensable part of schooling. Kindergarten is a crucial period for comprehensive sex education in schools,”  said Chen Wei, a doctor from a hospital in Quzhou, East China’s Zhejiang Province. Chen, who is also a deputy to the 14th National People’s Congress (NPC), China’s national legislature, is set to submit a motion urging kindergartens to provide sex education and use textbooks that are suitable for Chinese culture. She believes that comprehensive sex education will instil young people with certain knowledge, skills, attitudes and values toward sex, which will ensure their health and dignity. “Giving young people comprehensive sex education can postpone their first intercourse, reduce the frequency of sex and risks for those young people, and let them know how to use birth control measures,” according to Chen. A total of 131 000 people have been prosecuted for sexually assaulting minors, including rape and child molestation, in the past five years, according to data released by the Supreme People’s Procuratorate at a press conference on Wednesday. In 2021, 223 cases of sexual assault against children were reported, involving more than 569 victims, among whom the proportion of boys grew, a report published by a Chinese non-governmental organization revealed. For minors at a critical stage of physical and psychological development, scientific and normative sex education and values based on laws and moral customs jointly internalize and shape their behaviors and values, said Peng Xiaohui, a sexologist at Central China Normal University and vice-chairman of the China Sexology Association. In November 2021, the Ministry of Education issued the Guide for Life Safety and Health Education Curriculum Teaching Materials for Primary and Secondary Schools, which requires students to “learn the basic knowledge and skills of adolescent health care and improve their ability to prevent sexual harassment and assault.” – Global Times 