The Herald Arts Reporter MULTI-INSTRUMENTALIST and music producer, Clive “Mono” Mukundu, reckons local artistes need to be original and authentic if they entertain hopes of penetrating the international market. His experience has taught him that lack of originality has been the major setback among local musicians to make it internationally. The former Black Spirits band member, who extensively toured the world with the late Dr Oliver “Tuku” Mtukudzi and then with Chiwoniso Maraire, believes most Zimbabwean artistes’ music only appeals to locals. “We have three types of artistes in Zimbabwe who comprise those whose music only appeals to the Zimbabwean market or Zimbos in diaspora,” said Mukundu while addressing musicians’ managers at a recent show. “There are those whose music appeals internationally as is the case with Chiwoniso Maraire, Tuku, Thomas Mapfumo and of late Mokoomba, but still underrated at home. “Then there are those that you will just hear on the radio, but never hold shows and are just happy with airplay. So, these are the categories we have at the moment and it’s up to the artistes to choose where they belong.” Mukundu said many artistes were failing to make it internationally due to lack of originality. “It’s sad how genres like Zimdancehall and Zim Hip Hop are now on demand in Zimbabwe,” he said. “However, it is very difficult for most youngsters to be considered for international festivals because they don’t sound original. “For instance, when festival organisers want a dancehall-reggae artiste, they will go straight to Jamaica and get one or two. When they need a rhumba artiste, DRC is the place to go and as such, we should not fool ourselves by copying foreign stuff.” Mukundu took a swipe at some artistes who seem undecided on the genre to follow. “I have always told people that you can’t be a king/queen of everything in life if you want success to follow you,” he said. “I have heard artistes who brag that they can sing reggae, jazz, sungura and soul, among other genres. “This total madness should come to an end and people should learn to identify you with a particular genre. Tuku and Mukanya used to sing foreign genres, but after seeing the light, they completely changed and made international breakthroughs.” Mukundu said he has clashed with a number of artistes after advising them to change their genres if they wanted to penetrate the international market. “I’m one such producer who is blunt when giving advice to youngsters who approach me for advice,” he said. “There was a certain youngster who wanted to beat me up after I advised him that he was doomed with the type of music he was recording. “He got angry and almost charged towards me. After some months, he came back to me and thanked me for the advice which I gave him and we are now in good books.” Mukundu warned young musicians to learn to handle fame if they wanted to make it intentionally. “In Zimbabwe, we used to have one very talented artist who used to perform at The Book Café who lost the plot due to his violent conduct,” he said. “We used to warn him against his violent conduct, but we all saw the end results when people began to shun his music. “It was sad as many people were now treating him like a leprosy dog, but he really messed up. To make matters worse, he was not original, but talented, a call which he did not take seriously.” Mukundu said he was ready to help others realise their potential. “There are people who shaped me to be the star I am today and I will also do my best to help others who need my expertise,” he said.