The Herald Youth Interactive Writer Dance teaches teenagers life skills Participating in dance helps teens develop essential life skills, such as resilience, discipline, and determination. It teaches them how to persist in their goals, despite failure and adversity because learning to dance inevitably involves its fair share of stops and starts. Dancing teaches teens and tweens self-esteem, self-respect, and self-confidence, which often translates into improvements in other areas of their lives, such as academic performance and emotional health. Dance keeps teenagers healthy Many parents today find it difficult to get their teenagers away from their screens. Dance classes are a great way to encourage your teen or tween to move their body —  an essential skill in a society that often encourages people to be sedentary. Dance is good for teenagers’ hearts, lungs, and bones, and it can increase their strength, stamina, and flexibility, while also encouraging good posture and body awareness. Dance builds friendships Many of the students here at Urban Art Culture Dance School have developed lifelong friendships in our studio. Long hours spent working towards a common goal often translate into an unbreakable bond that your teen will cherish. From the magic of performing on stage, to the collective joy of achieving goals as a class, your teen will make a wealth of memories at Urban Art Culture Dance School that are sure to last them a lifetime. Dance boots cognitive performance Dance is not only beneficial for teens; physical health but their cognitive health as well. This is because dancing activates several parts of the brain at once, including those involved with memory and muscle memory. Constantly learning and memorizing new choreography for a class will help improve your teen’s long-term memory, which is an invaluable skill that they can take with them into adulthood. Dance improves emotional health It’s no secret that adolescence is rife with hormonal changes and peer pressure, which can result in emotional turmoil. Dance allows teens and tweens to express themselves both physically and emotionally. On a physical level, exercises such as dance release endorphins, which are feel-good chemicals that can improve mood and overall mental well-being. It also provides teens with something to focus on and strive for, besides the daily stresses of school and peers. Lastly, dancing is a safe and wonderful way for teens and tweens to express themselves, which will provide them with confidence and joy far away from negativities such as drugs and explicit sex. The writer identified as T Boss is a dance coach based in Harare.