The Herald THE Royal Netherlands Cricket Board (KNCB) yesterday announced the squads for the Netherlands upcoming tour to southern Africa later this month, where they will complete their final CWC Super League fixtures – a three-match series against Zimbabwe in Harare and the remaining two matches from their Covid-interrupted series against South Africa, to be played at Benoni and Johannesburg. Scott Edwards will lead the side on his first bilateral away tour since taking over the captaincy from his VOC Rotterdam clubmate Pieter Seelaar last year, though once again the Netherlands perennial availability issues will deny him the services of a number of first-choice players. Notably absent from the touring party are are left-arm spinner Tim Pringle and seam all-rounder Logan van Beek, who remain in New Zealand with Northern Districts and Wellington respectively. Colin Ackermann, Brandon Glover and Bas de Leede — the latter two having recently been signed by Durham under former Netherlands coach Ryan Campbell – will miss the South African leg of the tour. Campbell’s successor, Ryan Cook, will also miss the tour owing to commitments at the IPL, with Ryan van Niekerk (also a Gary Kirsten protege) stepping into the acting head coach role. Bas de Leede, Brandon Glover and Colin Ackermann will not be available for the matches in South Africa; Wesley Barresi and Aryan Dutt will not be playing in Zimbabwe. The experienced Roelof van der Merwe, who missed much of the Dutch home international season last year, returns for the duration however, along with the prodigal Tom Cooper who returned to Dutch colours after a six year hiatus last Summer. Kent’s left arm quick Fred Klaassen and Gloucestershire’s Paul van Meekeren are also available for both series, joining Netherlands-base Vivian Kingma and Ryan Klein in the seam section. Recently un-retired keeper-bat Wesley Barresi will join the squad for the South Africa matches, along with off-spinning all-rounder Aryan Dutt, both aiming to make their case for a regular place in the side. Young leg-spinner Shariz Ahmad looks to have cemented his place as the Netherlands first-choice wrist spin option since the departure of Michael Rippon, with the teenaged googly purveyor preferred over the more traditional leggie Philippe Boissevain. Max O’Dowd is a fixed name at the top of the order, with Vikram Singh his most likely opening partner while Musa Ahmad and Teja Nidamanuru will likely be contending for places lower down the order. The five matches will be the Netherlands’ final fixtures in the CWC Super League, and the final two against South Africa may prove crucial for the hosts as they seek to secure direct qualification for the World Cup. The Dutch can no longer arithmetically achieve a top eight finish and will thus have to compete at the upcoming World Cup Qualifier for one of the final two berths, as will Zimbabwe, who are set to host that tournament. With the Super League discontinued after its inaugural edition, questions of relegation are rendered moot and the Netherlands will be returned to Associates competition for the next qualification cycle. Teams Netherlands Squad (vs Zimbabwe): Scott Edwards (c) (w), Max O’Dowd, Vikram Singh, Colin Ackermann, Bas de Leede, Teja Nidamanuru, Roelof van der Merwe, Musa Nadeem Ahmad, Tom Cooper, Shariz Ahmad, Brandon Glover, Vivian Kingma, Fred Klaassen, Ryan Klein, Paul van Meekeren. Netherlands Squad (vs SA): Scott Edwards (c) (w), Max O’Dowd, Vikram Singh, Teja Nidamanuru, Tom Cooper, Roelof van der Merwe, Musa Nadeem Ahmad, Wesley Barresi, Aryan Dutt, Shariz Ahmad, Vivian Kingma, Fred Klaassen, Ryan Klein, Paul van Meekeren. — Cricbuzz