The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter THE Sports and Recreation Commission board chairman Gerald Mlotshwa has spoken highly of the organisation’s newly-appointed substantive director-general, Eltah Nengomasha. Nengomasha, who held the post of Director of Business Development, Marketing and Corporate Communications before the announcement yesterday, is set to take over the reins with effect from April 1. She was appointed in terms of Section 24 of the organisation’s Act. “The board of commissioners of the Sports and Recreation Commission (‘SRC’) advises that following the approval of its recommendations by the Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts & Recreation, Dr K L Coventry, and with the consent of His Excellency, The President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, Dr ED Mnangagwa, it has, in terms of Section 24 of the Sports and Recreation Act, appointed Ms. Eltah Nengomasha as the director-general of the SRC. “The appointment is with effect from 1st April, 2023. Ms. Nengomasha is previously the director of dusiness development, marketing and corporate communications of the SRC,” said Mlotshwa in a statement. He said Nengomasha possessed the requisite qualifications and experience to lead the country’s sports regulator. Nengomasha also has a Bachelor of Technology Honours Degree in Hospitality and Tourism from the University of Zimbabwe in collaboration with Chinhoyi University of Technology, amongst several other diplomas in the marketing field. She also holds a Master’s in Business Leadership from the University of South Africa and a Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing Management from IMM South Africa. “She has held senior positions in tourism and hospitality, mining, broadcasting and financial services in the private sector. Her experience and qualifications are in line with the stated desire of the SRC in ensuring for the full commercialisation of the sports sector in Zimbabwe,” said Mlotshwa. The Sports Commission did not have a substantive director-general for the past two years. Nengomasha replaced Sebastian Garikai, who has been the acting director-general of the Sports Commission for the past two years. Garikai held the fort following the dismissal of Prince Mupazviriho in November 2020. However, the veteran sports administrator will revert to his position of Director Sport and Recreation Development. “Mr Sebastian Garikai, the Acting Director-general of the SRC will revert to his position of director sport and recreation development. “The SRC wishes to thank Mr Garikai for his hard work and diligence during the period he was acting director-general. He will continue to enjoy the full support of the board as he resumes his previous role. “The board congratulates Ms Nengomasha on her appointment and wishes her much success as she assumes this most challenging of positions,” said Mlotshwa. The last substantive director-general Mupazviriho was suspended by the Sports Commission board in November 2020 to institute investigations into how a number of national football teams were cleared for foreign assignments, against the Government policy, at the height of the Covid-19 environment. The position had since been advertised and interviews were conducted by the board, who then sent their recommendations to the Minister Kirsty Coventry for approval. The director-general reports directly to the board and some of the responsibilities include provision of overall leadership to the day-to-day operations of the commission; ensuring the implementation, planning, organising and directing of the operations of the Sports and Recreation commission’s programmes, activities and services, which include related events, publicity and finances.