The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S Under-21 hockey teams intensified their preparations for the Junior Africa Cup over the weekend despite financial constraints threatening their participation. The competition is due to take place from March 12 to 19 in Ismailia, Egypt. The teams continued with their preparations with the men’s side taking on Hippo Men, Matabeleland Men and Khanimambo in a tournament held at Khumalo Hockey Stadium in Bulawayo while the women’s team had a camp in Harare. The men’s team manager, Hannington Sibanda, said they are pleased with the strides being made on the field. “The tournament went very well, four teams attended. All the teams participated quite hard and the standard of hockey was very high. “So on the pitch it was good. We had good umpires who came to help. So on the pitch in terms of practical preparations we are very happy. The boys got a good run against really strong teams,” Sibanda said. The Under-21 side were placed second behind winners Hippo Men. The tournament was also part of the fundraising efforts for the teams. Both teams need US$130 000 for the trip to Egypt and are yet to reach the target. “In terms of fundraising, we held a raffle. Some parents came and held raffle and sold raffle tickets. So we are working on the proceeds from that but it was a very small number that was there. “So financially we haven’t really made much headway. “In total we need US$130 000 for both teams and we are 40 percent short. So we are still pushing corporates, we are still pushing people. Parents are running around trying to fund-raise,” Sibanda said. Competing at the Junior Africa Cup will give the teams a chance to try and qualify for the FIH Junior World Cup in December since the continental show-piece is serving as a qualifier. The top two teams per gender will advance to the global tournament. The men’s event will be held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, while Chile will host the women’s competition. Sibanda said both the men’s and women’s teams are scheduled to regroup this weekend for the final camp ahead of departure pencilled for next week. “So basically as a team, as an association, we have said we are committed to this and we are trying to get as many people partnering with us as possible. But we have decided that as a national association we are going to do the best we can. “We are going to get these kids to Egypt and we are meeting for the camp on the weekend. And we still aim to leave on the 8th for Egypt. “In between now and then we are pushing parents, we are pushing sponsors, we are pushing the SRC, we are pushing every single channel we can so that these two teams go,” said Sibanda. The women’s team manager, Carla Jones, said despite the setback in terms of finances, the teams have been positive. “Both camps were very positive. A lot of hard work, the boys had a great tournament in Bulawayo . . .And, yes, a lot of hard work this weekend again, in the last camp starting again on Friday before we leave. “So we have had a few pledges from the weekend but we haven’t received it yet for us to account for it. At this stage we are still 40 percent short waiting for some pledged amounts to come in,” said Jones.