The Herald PARIS. — French football federation president Noël Le Graët resigned yesterday after a government audit found he no longer had the legitimacy to lead because of his behavior toward women and his management style. The 81-year-old Le Graët is under judicial investigation for alleged sexual and moral harassment. He had already stepped away from his duties until the audit’s findings were reviewed by the federation’s executive committee. He submitted his resignation to a meeting of the executive committee yesterday, according to a statement from the federation. Federation vice-president Philippe Diallo will handle Le Graët’s duties on an interim basis until June 2023, the statement said. Amid growing criticism of Le Graët last year, French sports minister Amélie Oudéa-Castéra ordered the audit into the federation in September. The audit report, based on more than 100 interviews and analysis of various documents, concluded last month that Le Graët’s behaviour toward women was inappropriate, and highlighted other dysfunctions at the federation. It also noted that its policy against gender-based and sexual violence is “neither effective or efficient.” The federation praised Le Graët’s “remarkable sporting and economic results” as head of the football body since 2011. It reiterated its “strong commitment against gender-based and sexual violence” and sought to distance itself from the audit. Le Graet, who was in office for 11 years and had a mandate until 2024, has previously faced claims of sexual harassment, which he denies. There were also calls for him to quit over his comments about Zinedine Zidane, who won the World Cup and Euros as a player for France and guided Real Madrid to three successive Champions League titles. Le Graet said he would not take a call from Zidane about becoming France coach before apologising for his “clumsy” remarks. The French government began the audit in October after being made aware of sexual harassment and bullying allegations at the organisation, which the FFF has denied. Announcing his resignation yesterday, the FFF said it “recognises the remarkable sporting and economic performance of Noel Le Graet”. Referring to the audit, it added: “The FFF nevertheless notes that the report is based less on objective facts than on comments that have sometimes led to exaggerated bad-mouthing of the body.” Le Graet took office in 2011, with the men’s national team winning the 2018 World Cup and finishing as runners-up at Euro 2016 and the 2022 World Cup. Before he stood down earlier this year, Le Graet extended Didier Deschamps contract as manager of the national side until 2026. Vice president Diallo will remain as interim president until June when a permanent successor will be chosen. Le Graet’s resignation comes after captain of the women’s team Wendie Renard and two other players said they will not play at this summer’s World Cup and criticised the country’s football “system”. France are due to play at the Women’s World Cup later this summer and Diallo said a decision on head coach Corinne Diacre’s future would be taken “very soon”. — AP