The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FOR Dynamos assistant coach Genesis “Kaka” Mangombe, settling for less is bigger at times. The former Yadah head coach surprised all and sundry after he decided to relinquish his post at the Prophetic Healing and Deliverance Ministries team and settle for a deputy’s role at DeMbare. Mangombe has built a strong reputation over the past three years, especially after unleashing less-known players into the Premiership football fray some of whom have become household names. And at a time when several top-flight teams were looking to recruit new coaches, Mangombe was being linked with a move to Triangle and Bulawayo Chiefs. However, he opted to ignore those interests to settle for the Glamour Boys following the appointment of Herbert “Jompano” Maruwa as their head coach. While he owes his growing status to Yadah, Mangombe said the decision to leave wasn’t that difficult given the sheer size of Dynamos and his need to experience new challenges. “The decision to leave my head coach position at Yadah to settle for a deputy’s role at Dynamos wasn’t that difficulty. “You know as time goes on, you also need to grow. But I would like to salute Prophet Walter Magaya and his Yadah executive for trusting me. “Imagine they believed in me so much that they gave me that job despite my inexperience in coaching at the highest level. I was actually coming from the lower divisions when they gave me the job,” said Mangombe. “For the past three or so years, Yadah was my home and the good thing about it is that they gave me all the support while giving me all the freedom to explore ways I believed in and this is how I managed to take less known players into the fray. “Prophet Magaya was also in support of my decision to leave given the mutual respect that exists between the two of us. “Honestly, Dynamos tabled a lucrative offer on approaching me and I consulted the Yadah hierarchy who then gave me their support. But there are times when you need to look yourself in the mirror and ask yourself tough questions. “Look, being a deputy at Dynamos is more challenging than being a head coach and it’s that experience associated with sitting on the Dynamos dugout that drove me into sealing a move to the Glamour Boys. “These are the stages we also want to experience while growing in this job. Dynamos is the biggest club in Zimbabwe, that’s not a secret and one’s CV can only be strengthened on mentioning they have once coached at Dynamos.” While Mangombe and Maruwa haven’t worked together recently, the former says the working environment has been enjoyable so far. “I have never worked with head coach Herbert “Jompano” Maruwa but we have always been on talking terms and we have always given advice to each other. So working with him, for me is a dream come true. The mutual respect is beyond any doubt. “We believe in the beauty of the game. We want to bring back the fans to the stadiums through playing beautiful football and also winning matches. “I think we have assembled a strong team with an average age of 24. We believe in building up play from the back and also high press upon losing possession. “Dynamos is a pressure cooker. You are supposed to win every match even a friendly game, so we need to work extra hard so that we make everyone happy. The idea is to bring back fans to the terraces through playing some good football and getting results. “Dynamos last won the league title nine years ago and that’s a long time for a club like DeMbare. We need to work hard and see what happens.” Maruwa, a rather surprise choice to replace Tonderai Ndiraya for the head coach’s post at Dynamos, said Mangombe has so many qualities he admires. The former Dynamos assistant coach had spent years at the helm of Black Rhinos before a rather nasty separation late last season. Maruwa was then co-opted into the Harare City technical bench as the Sunshine Boys became desperate in their chase for survival. With Harare City’s survival bid up in smoke, Maruwa was then approached by the Glamour Boys and he in turn recommended Mangombe to take the post of his assistant.