The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S are set to conclude their three-year mission in the inaugural ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League when they host the Netherlands for three ODIs in Harare later this month. The games will be played at Harare Sports Club on March 21, 23 and 25, with Zimbabwe looking for a consolation series win after a disappointing run in the competition which left them sitting second from the bottom of the 13-team competition. The Netherlands are rooted at the bottom of the table, although they still have an outstanding tour of South Africa where they are scheduled to play their last two ODIs. So, this is a bottom of the table clash as there is still an outside chance of Zimbabwe and the Netherlands swapping places should the tourists upset the home team. The two cricket boards have been working on the nitty-gritties of the series and yesterday ZC spokesperson Darlington Majonga confirmed it was a deal done. “It’s confirmed. The Netherlands will be coming for three ODIs this month. These games are part of the Super League and of course they are the last for Zimbabwe. “The matches will be played in Harare. A detailed statement is going to be issued,” said Majonga. The Chevrons, who started the year by hosting Ireland for a six-match white-ball series in Harare before welcoming the West Indies for two Tests in Bulawayo, are set for more internationals at home. The series would also provide an opportunity for both teams to learn from each other and improve their skills. Zimbabwe were beaten 2-0 in their last ODI meeting in Deventer, Netherlands, during the tour of Europe in 2019. But the Chevrons have since picked themselves up with the arrival of legend Dave Houghton to lead the team last year. It can also be a great opportunity to grow the game of cricket in both countries, and it promises an exciting series for cricket enthusiasts. The series provides an opportunity for the Netherlands cricket team to showcase their talents on the international stage against a Zimbabwean team that is known for its strong performance on home soil. The ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League had great significance to all the participating teams as it was used as the platform for direct qualification to this year’s ICC World Cup finals to be held in India. Featuring 13 teams, the 12 ICC Full Members and the Netherlands, who qualified by winning the ICC World Cricket Super League 2015-17, the Super League is expected to see each side play four home and four away three-match series. By the end of the campaign all teams should have played 24 games. Zimbabwe have so far played 21 matches since the start of the campaign in 2020 and have won only four times, while losing 16 games, most of them during the difficult phase under Indian coach, Lalchand Rajput. The Chevrons have played Super League games against teams like Pakistan, Bangladesh, Ireland, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, India and Australia. They claimed some famous victories along the way after beating powerhouses Pakistan in Rawalpindi, Sri Lanka in Pallekele, and Australia in Townsville. But, as things stand, Zimbabwe are out of the running to qualify directly for the 2023 World Cup, which is scheduled for October-November in India. Each team earns 10 points for a win, five for a tie/no result/abandoned match, and zero for a loss. Zimbabwe currently have 45 points and the Netherlands amassed 25. The team currently occupying the last automatic qualification spot, West Indies, have 88 points and are sure to miss out as they have exhausted all their games. The top seven teams, and hosts India, are assured of a direct entry to the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023. So far seven places have been filled. New Zealand lead the race with 150 points, followed by India on 139 points. England, Pakistan, Australia, Bangladesh and Afghanistan have also qualified. West Indies, South Africa and Sri Lanka are still in the running for the remaining automatic qualification ticket. Zimbabwe, meanwhile, are in 12th place and will be among the five bottom-placed teams that will feature in the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Qualifier, which they will host between June 18 and July 9. They will be joined in the Qualifier by five Associate teams, to make it a 10-team tournament. Two teams from the qualifying tournament will then progress to the World Cup.