The Herald Arts Reporter The house our Givenchy has kicked off 2023 with a bang by launching a new fragrance, Gentleman Society, setting the pace for any designer fragrance that will enter the market this year. The Givenchy Gentleman line is one of the most prominent brands in the fragrance game, and they have decided to switch it up with this one. Gentleman Society draws inspiration from a contemporary and disruptive group of men who share values of respect, open-mindedness, caring towards others, and elegance. This fragrance is designed for men who are constantly reinventing the rules while remaining true to who they are and to their commitments. The Gentleman Society bottle is sculptural, edgy, and sophisticated. It is powerful and refined, just like the Givenchy fashion collections, combining streetwear influences and Couture sophistication. The architectural lines of the bottle are highlighted by an inside lacquering conveying mystery. The name of the fragrance is replaced by an embossed metal plate bearing the iconic Givenchy 4G logo which adorns all of the House’s creations. In line with the brand’s eco-responsibility commitments, the bottle is composed of 15 percent recycled glass, and its box is made with FSCTM cardboard. The box features a chrome design stamped with the 4G logo and enhanced by a black frame, a nod to the design of L’Interdit, the House’s emblematic feminine perfume. The Gentleman Society Eau de Parfum comes in 60 and 100 ml bottles and is also available as a must-have bath range, which includes a shower gel as well as two deodorants (in stick and spray versions) to complete the perfuming ritual. This creation was brought to life by two master perfumers, Karine Dubreuil-Sereni and Maïa Lernout who have both worked on many exceptional fragrances. The fragrance starts with a spark of freshness, with juniper berries from Croatia combining with cardamom from Guatemala to form an invigorating aromatic duo that triggers a fusing effect from the very first inhalation. A hint of clary sage, grown in Europe, adds its herbaceous, aromatic facets to this striking accord, which soon gives way to the heart of the composition. The heart of the fragrance comprises of a narcissus absolute cultivated in France and transformed in Grasse, which blends its green, animal accents with the powdery, musky facets of iris concrete from Morocco. This results in a deep, sophisticated accord, conferring even more density to the woods: cedarwood from Himalaya, sandalwood from Australia (both sourced from organic agriculture), as well as vetiver. The fragrance contains a quartet of vetivers from different origins and extractions, which makes it possible to translate the olfactory richness of this key ingredient, while referring in an original way to the House’s 4G logo. Vetiver essence from Madagascar, derived from organic agriculture, brings its smoky and roasted, almost salty, facets, while vetiver from Uruguay releases an intense cocoa and balmy note. As regards vetiver from Haiti, it appears as a bright, lively essence, with green and woody hazelnut facets. It also undergoes CO2 extraction, an eco-friendly qualitative process, which makes it possible to obtain a fresh root scent with bitter sweet zesty grapefruit accents and an extremely pure expression. The timeless elegance of vetiver goes hand in hand with a salty spray accord which unexpectedly twists and contrasts with the woody signature. Matching the creamy facets of sandalwood, ambroxan and vanilla absolute from Madagascar create a warm, enveloping base, with a perfectly mastered sensuality. Givenchy has created a unifying fragrance with the Gentleman Society, which is unlike any other. It is designed for men who share social skills and an off-the-beaten-track attitude and is composed of natural ingredients sourced from organic agriculture, making it eco-friendly. The fragrance can be grabbed at various outlets including Edgars, Catts Beaute Sam Levy Village, Licorice Stores and Kenlink Pharmacies.