The Herald Arts Reporters Despite being a Thursday, a day during the week where many people will be busy with work and wrapping up, preparing for the weekend, some local disc jockeys have chosen the day as their busiest. The trio of disc jockeys Dj Flevah, Smith on Deck and Switchbass are performing every Thursday at Habhana Lounge at Southgate Mall in Hillside, Harare. Dj Flevah said in an interview with The Herald Arts that business was now picking up for their shows. “We are happy that business is booming, especially on Thursdays at the local joint,” he said. “Thursday is now our busiest day and we have revellers coming from all corners and we promise fireworks.” Dj Flevah said since they worked as a team, their playlist was always intact. “Most people always ask how then do we balance our playlist when we are three on the day at the booth,” he said. “What people need to understand and know is that people are different, hence the music taste and feel. “So, what we do as a team is that we arrange ourselves and depending on the mood and attitsude of the crowd, we play accordingly. Sometimes we do research from revellers on what they want to hear us play.” Dj Flevah said Habhana Lounge had become the place to be for people holding exclusive parties. Of late, the club introduced rhumba sessions where Dj Ben, Dj Lucky and Buzie are in charge of the slot. The venue has been hosting high-profile shows and birthday parties. One reveller identified as JKandoro (38) said he unwinds the week by attending the Thursday sessions. “I know some would say that fun happens on weekends, but no, I make it a point to go and chill and relax with my friends after work,” he said. “The music is so cool and the environment is conducive.” Another Habhana Lounge’s staunch fan, who commented on condition of anonymity, said besides good music from the trio, they hang out as girls for business meetings. “Not that I am marketing the club, but truth is that it is a good place for the executive nights from parties to meetings,” she said. “Do your research and you can see that most of the type of people who want a cool environment come here.”