The Herald LIVERPOOL. — Jurgen Klopp also confirmed the news that Roberto Firmino has decided to leave Liverpool at the end of the season. The Brazilian will depart Anfield in the summer after eight glittering years in which he has become a fan-favourite and will surely join the host of legends forever associated with the club. Klopp admitted he was ‘surprised’ with the striker’s decision, but Firmino has his full support and respect for his role in the Reds’ recent success. “Yes, he told me,” Klopp said in his press conference this afternoon. “Surprised? Yes, a little bit but I was not hit by surprise, actually it’s a normal thing to do. “It could go two ways and it was one. And I respect that a lot. It’s completely normal in this kind of long relationship that we have and Bobby has with the club and with most of the players and stuff like this, and with the fans of course.” Klopp added that there will be plenty of time for goodbyes at the end of the season, and that Firmino is hoping to end his Liverpool career in a positive way on the pitch and with supporters. “It’s pretty special and I loved the reception he got when he came on against United,” said the Reds boss. “He told me and then the only other thing he said is, ‘Now I want to bring this wonderful story to a positive end.’ So, that’s it. He is completely here and completely committed, how everybody can imagine. And that’s all we need to know. “There’s no time for a goodbye or whatever in this moment, there’s enough time for that later in the season. Whenever he will come back, everybody knows that the song will still be for a long, long time in everybody’s ears I’m pretty sure. “No problem. I think he’s one of these players that even when he would come with an opposition team, people would be really happy to see him.” Meanwhile, Klopp has revealed Liverpool will still be without Luis Diaz, Thiago Alcantara and Joe Gomez for today’s lunchtime trip to Bournemouth. The trio remain sidelines through injury, but Klopp did provide some positive news that they are edging closer to a return to action. — TalkSPORT.