The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter PREMIER Netball League defending champions Platinum Queens are targeting a positive start as the 2023 season takes off today. The Zvishavane-based side gets the ball rolling at home when they face Beitbridge Border Queens, Stormers, Redwing and Zupco. They won the pre-season tournament last month and coach Simbarashe Mlambo said they would want to utilise the home advantage as the league games begin. “So we believe we are prepared enough for our first challenge on Saturday. I guess we will see if we have lost any momentum since the pre-season tournament. But we seem to be on course. “The girls are raring to go and we will just have to see how Saturday goes and if we get a positive result then it means we did our homework. If not, then we go back to the drawing board. “I think like any team, we expect to win and we will use home advantage definitely to win and give everybody a run for their money. But as a team, we just want to enjoy the day, playing in front of our home fans and just make sure that we get the wins that we need to secure the points,” said Mlambo. Twenty teams are set to battle it out for the championship and just like in the previous season, the games will be played in clusters with teams converging at different selected venues. Today’s matches are expected to take place in Zvishavane, Checheche, Mutare and Shamva. Platinum Queens won the PNL title in 2021 and 2022 as well as the pre-season tournament. They went on to win this year’s pre-season tournament to make it three in a row. “Obviously these are important games. They send a message out there, the margin, the errors that we make. So we are hoping that we will minimise on those errors and definitely throw in one or two surprises and test our combinations. Move one or two players around and set the proper tone for the games to come. “So we really are expecting a lot. “Like any defending champion, I believe the standard is the same, it’s up to other teams, big teams also to upset                             us. “But as reigning champions and defending champions we want to defend our championship. Get the gold medal once more and just make sure that our fans get the satisfaction they need,” said Mlambo. Some of the seasoned teams in the league include ZDF Queens, Rhinos and Harare City. GreenFuel are also proving to be a force to reckon with in the PNL and have indicated that they are going for the top two this season. Harare City coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki says they are hoping for a top four finish. Last year they were placed fifth at the end of the season. However, the coach admitted they still have a lot of work to do considering four players left the club. “We have a lot of work to do. We have about four players that left. We have also brought in a new shooter but we are still finalising on a few things. We are still working on the combinations and also our preparations, we started late. “So we have a lot of work to do to come up with a strong team. So for this first bubble, if we can win all our games or at least three of the four games, it will be a good result for us. “If all things work out, we want to compete for the top four,” said Mutsauki. The players that have left include Kudakwashe Muchengi, who played goal defence, and goalkeeper Miriam Chiwawa as well as wing attack Nomatter Changata and centre Natasha Rwambiwa. PNL chairperson Sarudzai Chapo said they are hopeful of an improved competition this season. Fixtures Today Venue: Shamva Filchrist Boarding vs Filchrist ZJC, Filchrist Boarding vs Marondera, Filchrist Boarding vs Waterfalls, Filchrist Boarding vs Ngezi, Filchrist ZJC vs Marondera, Filchrist ZJC vs Waterfalls, Filchrist ZJC vs Ngezi, Marondera vs Waterfalls, Marondera vs Ngezi, Waterfalls vs Ngezi. Venue: Mutare Mutare City vs ZDF Queens, Mutare City vs Rhinos, Mutare City vs UZ, Mutare City vs Harare District Queens, ZDF Queens vs Rhinos, ZDF Queens vs UZ, ZDF Queens vs Harare District Queens, Rhinos vs UZ, Rhinos vs Harare District Queens, UZ vs Harare District Queens. Venue: Zvishavane Beitbridge Border Queens vs Platinum, Beitbridge Border Queens vs Stormers, Beitbridge Border Queens vs Redwing, Beitbridge Border Queens vs Zupco, Platinum vs Stormers, Platinum Queens vs Redwing, Platinum vs Zupco, Stormers vs Redwing, Stormers vs Zupco, Redwing vs Zupco. Venue: Checheche Harare City vs GreenFuel, Harare City vs Expandable, Harare City vs City Angels, Harare City vs Lupane, GreenFuel vs Expandable, GreenFuel vs City Angels, GreenFuel vs Lupane, Expandable vs City Angels, Expandable vs Lupane, City Angels vs Zupco.