The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter ALL is set for the inaugural edition of the Under-19 cricket identification tournament to be held at Peterhouse School from March 31 to April 4. The tournament, which was launched yesterday, has the blessings of Zimbabwe Cricket who will also have their Under-19 team participating in the six-team tournament. Tournament director, Hilda Kadye, said the first tournament will be supported by Powerplay Sports and will avail opportunities for young players from all backgrounds. “We are going to have an inaugural Under-19 cricket tournament at Peterhouse Group of Schools where there will be six teams playing in ODI and T20 International Cricket Council playing rules. “The tournament will have the Zimbabwe Under-19 Select, Harare Select, Powerplay South Africa, Shasha Stars, Peterhouse and Wise Owl. There is a need to support cricket from grassroots and we are happy that we have the Zimbabwe Under-19 team which is preparing for junior World championship as well as a team selected from the underprivileged areas throughout the country. There will be a team under Prince Edward coach Alois Tichani who was tasked to select players from areas that are not very active in cricket but have potential players. “The programme is good as it will give an opportunity to some players from areas which have no access to cricket fields but have potential,” said Kadye. Tichani, who is overlooking the Shasha Stars team, said he is hopeful that the event will go a long way in supporting grassroots cricket as it is giving an opportunity to some marginalised areas. “I am pleased to have this opportunity to take Shasha Stars, a select cricket team from various high density suburbs to the inaugural Under-19 selection tournament. The tournament is good for development of the sport as it will open avenues for some players who, with some luck, can be drafted into the national Under-19 team. “The tournament to be held at Peterhouse will also give a chance to some players who can be given an opportunity to tour Chennai Super Kings if they are extremely talented. “Coming up with Shasha Stars was a huge task as we have a limited number but we have a lot of talented young boys who need such opportunities,” said Tichani. Fixtures Day One Pro 50 Zimbabwe U-19 v Harare Select, Powerplay (SA) v Shasha Stars, Peterhouse v Wise Owl. Day Two Zimbabwe Under-19 v Powerplay, Wise owl v Shasha Stars, Peterhouse v Harare Select. Day Three T20 Peterhouse v Shasha Stars, Powerplay v Harare Select, Peterhouse v Zim U-19, Powerplay v Shasha Stars, Wise Owl v Harare Select. Day Four T20 Zim U-19 v Powerplay SA, Peterhouse v Powerplay SA, Wise Owl v Shasha Stars, Day Five Wise Owl v Powerplay, Peterhouse v Harare Select, Zim Under-19 v Wise Owl.