The Herald Precious Manomano Herald Reporter Midlands farmers planted 469 408 hectares of maize, the highest of any province, as Zimbabwe moves towards a record harvest with good rains falling on a large planted area. During the present summer cropping season, 1 962 575 hectares were put under maize countrywide, rivalled only by the year 2010 when two million hectares were put under maize. The harvest from this year’s crop will not only produce enough to feed the country, but will also allow the rebuilding of carry-over reserves — ensuring sufficient supplies are available next season, even if the rainfall is inadequate. Last season, farmers planted 1 903 668ha, so the 1 962 575ha this season represented a three percent increase. In the past years, Mashonaland West Province was the major contributor of agricultural produce due to its favourable weather patterns and good soils. In the last summer cropping season, the province surpassed set targets and was named the best in the climate-proofed Pfumvudza/Intwasa Scheme. The pre-season crop, livestock and fisheries assessment for the present summer season from the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Development shows that Midlands farmers planted maize on 469 408ha compared to 391 945ha last year. Mashonaland West has 322 844ha compared to 324 159ha last year, while Manicaland has 272 874ha compared to 235 5441ha in the previous year. The report showed that the communal sector still contributes the largest area under maize, 62 percent, while the large-scale and A2 sectors contributed 8 percent, which is a two percent decrease from 10 percent in the last season. This season was characterised by an early onset of rains in most parts of the country, except Mashonaland provinces that had a late onset of rains where the bulk of cereal crops were planted in November and December . Zimbabwe requires 2,2 million tonnes of maize for human and livestock consumption and the expected 3 million tonnes target from this season will not only restore strategic reserves but also open doors to some exports. All farmers are guaranteed a market, with the Grain Marketing Board buying all grain on offer at set prices. Farmers are optimistic that production will be high this year following good rains that were received in most parts of the country. Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers’ Union (ZCFU) president, Dr Shadreck Makombe said there were chances of getting a bumper harvest because of good rains received so far, and the preparedness of farmers. “The season is good following good rains that are received. We are sure of a bumper harvest this season,” he said. Zimbabwe Indigenous Women Farmers Association Trust president Mrs Depinah Nkomo, also said: “We are expecting a good harvest. Farmers are doing well this season and the progress made so far shows a brighter future in farming.” Tobacco Farmers Union Trust vice president Mr Edward Dune said the future of maize production was great following the participation of private buyers. “The future is bright if farmers continue to be paid in foreign currency,” he said. “We are optimistic that next year, we can achieve the target if private players also come to partner the Government in farming. “This is critical for our country because food security is an important part of our lives. We must stock up our reserves.” Government programmes such as the Pfumvudza/Intwasa, the National Enhanced Agriculture Productivity Scheme (NEAPS), the Agriculture and Rural Development Authority (ARDA), and interventions by the private sector, are set to enhance production of all crops this season, which ensures greater food production, oil seed and tobacco production. This not only raises the income of rural families as an ever larger percentage not only grow their own food, but have surpluses and cash crops for sale, but also ensures local raw materials for the manufacturing sector. The higher incomes for farmers and growing rural wealth in line with the rural development agenda also creates new markets for capital and consumer goods produced by Zimbabwean industry.