The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter THREE goals and two assists in his last two games — it seems former Zimbabwe national football team captain Knowledge Musona is enjoying his renaissance in the Saudi Pro-League. He was at his best again on Thursday night when he scored a brace and contributed an assist in Al-Tai’s 3-2 win over Al Fateh in the Saudi Pro-League. He has now taken his tally to six goals and six assists as he continued with his recovery from a slump that had affected his game towards the end of last year. The 32-year-old was involved in all of Al-Tai’s goals on Thursday night, firstly by levelling the terms with a shot to the bottom corner of the hosts’ goal with just 17 minutes played. Al-Tai had conceded a seventh minute goal by Al Fateh’s double scorer, Feras Albrikan. Musona then turned the provider when he threaded a fine ball into the box to set up Congolese forward Guy Mbenza, who made no mistake from close range in the 29th minute. But Albrikan brought Al Fateh back on level terms again with 20 minutes remaining before Musona beat the keeper in added time to secure victory for his team The Al Tai skipper now has six goals and six assists in the league so far. Musona, who had suffered a severe loss of form, appears to have rediscovered his touch. He finally found the back of the nets in their previous game, after having gone more than 10 games in the Saudi Pro-League. The forward contributed a goal and an assist in Al-Tai’s 2-2 draw with Al-Adalah on February 23. The 32-year-old brought his side back into the game with a 63rd minute half-volley after Christofer Gonzalez had put the hosts ahead a few moments earlier. Musona had last scored a league goal back in October, when he single-handedly destroyed relegation candidates Khaleej FC with a hattrick in the 3-0 win. His other recent goal was during the King’s Cup defeat to Al-Fateh in December. He had an assist when he turned provider in that game, after setting up Mukhtar Ali, as Al-Tai took the lead two minutes later. However, the hosts ensured parity almost instantly, with all the goals for both teams coming during a feisty 10-minute interval between the 59th and 68th minutes.