The Herald Tina Musonza Arts Correspondent United Kingdom-based Zimbabwean international speaker and worshipper, Nqo Mafukidze says people need to invest more time in the reading culture so as to know some of the possible solutions in life. Mafukidze made the remarks yesterday on the preparations of her debut book launch dubbed “Living Loved” scheduled for tomorrow at Hellenic Sports Club in Harare. The book aims to help people navigate solutions to challenges they encounter in various societies, according to the author. The 31-year-old ordained pastor described her journey with the challenges she encountered in her life and then submitted her life to God. She said she saw a turning point in her life when she had submitted to God and became prayerful as she walked her steps into the spiritual realm she had entered. “The book was inspired by Biblical allusions and my experiences on how I soothed my soul and healed from pain, fear until the relationship with God as I travels nations preaching and seeing God heal hearts with His love, save, heal bodies and bring freedom to people,” said Mafukidze. “The book is called ‘Living Loved’ and the concept and revelation is based on John 1 chapter 4 and verse 16 which is an amplified version. It talks about personal observation and how I experienced the love which God has for us. “My voice was shut down. I was scared of everything. It wasn’t anything specific but I think it was a culture of fear around me and I just feared being myself. I began to fear the opinions of people around me. I did not feel like I had a place. I felt like I was inconvenienced so I lived in fear.” She said that it has 10 chapters which are of importance in initiating people into the world where they will appreciate and make use of the word of God as they find a loophole to escape challenges they encounter. “It’s a place where I invite people to engage with the Holy Spirit, to engage with God in a deeper personal way. “I started writing this book when I was in Redan, California which is in the North of California a couple of years back and finished the book in the United Kingdom,” said the bubbly author. Mafukidze said as the title of the book, “Living Loved,” depicts it was crucial to embrace the originality God created them in, be it skin tone, hair colour, height and other human qualities and interior qualities as well. “I would say it was more of an identity issue, I think a lot of us growing in this generation there is a lot that the media is telling us what we are supposed to be, people around us are telling us as well what we are supposed to be. There is a lot that’s pulling on us and I think out of that place we can end up unsure of what we are. What’s our place in the world? How do we show up on our daily basis? “So for me really, the Lord had to take me on showing me actually that He is good, He is love because I think because of life experiences, we can begin to think that God sees us with the filter that other people see us through and how we see ourselves through. “ We can feel like God is distant, far away or He is angry at us and yet actually the truth is God is love. So John 1 Chapter 4 vs 16 talks about how God is love.” “It might be a lie that I am not good enough, I am not pretty, I can never achieve anything in life. I don’t have a place, I am not going anywhere and I invite them to partner with the Holy Spirit to actually break lies, agreements with those lies and come to agreement with the truth of God’s word,” she said. She said the book has already unlocked access to buy the book on Amazon, her website at nqomafukidze.com and those without online payment methods they can pay cash on delivery. Mafukidze added that the book has received endorsements from prominent Pastors and Leaders in the UK, US, Zimbabwe, Croatia, South Africa, Uganda, Kenya, Belgium, Japan and The Kingdom of Eswatini.