The Herald Multinational automotive group Stellantis – which owns vehicle brands such as Fiat, Alfa Romeo, Citroën, Jeep, Opel, Peugeot and Abarth – plans to develop a manufacturing facility in South Africa. On Wednesday it signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) and the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition (dtic) to develop such a facility. Stellantis was established in 2021 through a merger between the French-based PSA Group and Italian-American conglomerate Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. The manufacturing plant is planned for setup in an unspecified South African special economic zone (SEZ), with the aim to complete the project by 2025. There have however been suggestions Stellantis could use some of the excess capacity at the vehicle manufacturing plant established by Beijing Automobile International Corporation (BAIC) through an R11 billion investment in the Coega Industrial Development Zone (IDZ) in the Eastern Cape. The IDC was a co-investor and has a 35 percent shareholding in the BAIC project. IDC head of corporate affairs Tshepo Ramodibe said that Stellantis is currently structuring and consolidating its business case, the details of which include the location of the plant. “Incentives offered in SEZs have appeal to this project. Various location options are being reviewed at this time and Stellantis will provide details to stakeholders in due course,” said Ramodibe. “Announcing the signing of the MoU, Stellantis noted that the signing ceremony took place at the office of Minister of Trade, Industry and Competition Ebrahim Patel. Patel said he is pleased Stellantis is looking to South Africa to expand its manufacturing footprint. “The company is a large global automaker, with a range of well-known brands. South Africa is a great investment destination with significant car-making capacity,” he said. “We look forward to working closely with Stellantis to enable the company to set up a plant that will expand our manufacturing base and create local jobs.” Cherfan said the signing of the MoU is an important step in Stellantis’s ‘Dare Forward 2030’ strategic plan towards strengthening its leadership in the Middle East and Africa region and becoming a major player in South Africa. “The manufacturing site in South Africa will be a new building block in our industrialisation strategy that includes the plan to sell one million vehicles in the region by 2030, with 70 percent regional production autonomy, and will bring us closer to our customers’ needs in the region.” – Bloomberg