The Herald Business Reporter Zimbabwe will participate at the leading world tourism fair,  International Tourism Bourse (ITB) in Berlin, Germany where the country will market the country as a prime tourism destination and add to its post-Covid-19 recovery efforts. The Ministry of Environment, Climate, Tourism and Hospitality Industry together with the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) will lead the tourism industry to the tourism fair. Slotted for 7 – 9 March 2023, Zimbabwe’s participation at the renowned Berlin tourism showcase will be supported by a robust entourage of more than 18 local tourism industry players who are keen to reposition Zimbabwe as a must-visit tourism destination in Southern Africa. The sector is poised for growth following the positive developments in the destination. As the country recovers from the devastating effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, Zimbabwe’s tourism industry has embarked on tourism recovery strategies with the aim of regaining the lost market share in varied source markets. This has seen Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Mangaliso Ndhlovu and his team re-engaging with international investors, the travel trade industry, media and the diplomatic community with a view of presenting the rebirth of Zimbabwe and the vision for a brilliant economy characterized by transparency and progressive ease of doing business. Speaking on the scheduled ITB Berlin mission, the ZTA chief executive officer (CEO), Ms Winnie Muchanyuka reiterated the need for Zimbabwe to take advantage of the foundation laid by the Government to aggressively market destination Zimbabwe in source markets. “With the positive developments experienced in the tourism sector of late, there has never been an opportune time for Zimbabwe to reposition itself than this. “It is encouraging to note that the international market is rejuvenated, ready to travel, and has renewed interest in destination Zimbabwe,” she said. Germany is ranked as the second-highest generator of arrivals from Europe into Zimbabwe after the United Kingdom, contributing 23 980 arrivals recorded in 2022, compared to 37 984 arrivals attained in the pre-pandemic era in 2019. Ms Muchanyuka said this momentum and trajectory can only be sustained by Zimbabwe’s participation at ITB Berlin and other related International travel fairs as well as investment in other market recovery strategies such as intensified market representation, trade development, media relations, destination campaigns, advertising, events marketing and digital marketing. ITB Berlin is the world’s largest travel show and remains the leading global meeting place attracting the participation of more than 185 countries, 900 qualified top buyers, 10 000 exhibitors, 23 000 convention visitors and more than 165 000 private and public visitors which makes it a significant platform for Zimbabwe to advance its presence. The platform provides a serious business platform for exchanges with top decision-makers, experts, buyers and young professionals in the tourism business. Among the participating players are Rainbow Tourism Group, Cresta Hospitality, Wild Horizons, Victoria Falls Hotel, Zimbabwe Parks Management and Wildlife Authority and the Airports Company of Zimbabwe. 