The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter AFTER losing the core of their team during the off-season, Bulawayo Chiefs’ rebuilding efforts will be tested ahead of the new Premiership football season when they face champions FC Platinum in the Castle Challenge Cup at Mandava tomorrow. Chiefs, who are now under the tutelage of a new coach, Lizwe Sweswe, are virtually a new-look outfit. Sweswe replaced Portuguese gaffer Nilton Terroso, who returned to Europe in October last year when his work permit expired. And with just under two months in charge, the former FC Platinum and Tsholotsho head coach finds himself back in the spotlight, with silverware at stake against his former paymasters. Sweswe has been involved in rebuilding the Chiefs squad following a player exodus that claimed almost a dozen of the regular players. “Just imagine losing almost all the players that were playing week in and week out last year. It feels like starting all over again. But we have a squad that is coming up. “So far so good, but you know with the cup games, sometimes it’s all about the players, how they turn up on the day and how they connect on the field of play. “This is the first competitive game of the season for us and it’s important to win so that we boost our morale. It’s also good for our confidence,” said Sweswe. Chiefs, who faced financial challenges towards the backend of the last season, were deserted by players such as the trio of attacking midfielder Arthur Musiyiwa and Moyo twins Elvis and Kevin, who both signed for Dynamos. Veteran midfielder Kelvin Madzongwe also signed for the other Harare giants CAPS United while Lucky Ndlela and Ghanaian Wilson Mensah are now at Triangle. Chiefs lost both goalkeepers David Bizabani, now with Premiership newboys GreenFuel, and Matripples Muleya to Triangle. Pacy winger Perfect Chikwende has returned to FC Platinum and could be facing his former teammates tomorrow. Amid the gloom, the club managed to retain players such as Panashe Ryan Shoko, Thomas Mudzengerere, Ben Nyahunzwi, Felix Moyo, Malvern Hativagone, Mandlenkosi Gasela, Mthokozisi Msebe, Billy Veremu, Malvin Mkolo and Obriel Chirinda. As part of their rebuilding exercise, they have roped in a number of replacements that include former Warriors midfielder Danny Phiri, striker Stanson Kanye from Division One side Quality Foods and Dalubuhle Dlodlo, who had a previous stint with relegated Bulawayo City. Defender William Stima, who was released by FC Platinum after struggling to get game time in the previous campaign, mainly due to injuries, is also part of the mix. “When you are rebuilding many people would stand curious to see whether you are going to be successful or not. But that’s not what we are concerned with at the moment. “What is important is hard work and the efforts that we are putting to try and achieve our targets as a team. It’s not about me as a coach or any individual for that matter. It’s about the team Bulawayo Chiefs,” said Sweswe. Sweswe worked at FC Platinum between 2017 and 2020, firstly as assistant to Norman Mapeza before taking over the reins and winning the 2019 league title following Mapeza’s departure for South Africa where he had a brief stint with Chippa United. Bulawayo Chiefs earned the ticket to play the Castle Challenge Cup by virtue of winning the Chibuku Super Cup last year. Sweswe is looking forward to returning to Mandava for the pre-season clash. “I think what is exciting for both teams is that they will use the competition to assess their readiness for the season. It’s one game where we will see how far we are in terms of being ready for the season. “I also believe that facing my former employers is something that might inspire fans to come and watch the game. I’m not under any pressure at all that I’m facing FC Platinum and the key thing is to see how ready we’re as a team for the 2023 season,” said Sweswe.