The Herald Maxwell Tapatapa Herald Reporter The Baltic state of Latvia, a EU member, has for the first time deployed a top official to scout for investment opportunities in Zimbabwe and is eyeing both political and economic cooperation as the Government’s engagement and re-engagement drive continues to bear fruit. A Latvian delegation is in the country on a four-day visit and is led by Ministry of Foreign Affairs Director-General in the Bilateral Relations Department Ambassador Nils Jansons who is accompanied by Zimbabwe’s Ambassador to Sweden, Priscilla Misihairabwi-Mushonga. Latvia is a country on the south-eastern coast of the Baltic Sea between Lithuania and Estonia. According to World Economics Research, the population of Latvia is estimated to be 1,8 million with a GDP per capita using purchasing power parity of US$41,474. This places Latvia in 43rd place in the world economics global wealth rankings and 28th for Europe. Speaking after paying a courtesy call on the Speaker of the National Assembly Advocate Jacob Mudenda in Harare yesterday, Ambassador Jansons said they had come to seek understanding of the country and the region in an effort to increase cooperation. “As part of the European Union, we are interested in understanding better the situation, challenges and issues dealt with by Zimbabwe.” “We want to play a responsible role within the EU, UN and other organisations that treats issues of this region and country with required respect and informed opinion” Today he will be having high level meetings to understand more about the country as well as opportunities available. “I am looking forward for tomorrow to cover a full session of political consultations in the Ministry of Foreign affairs, to go through all those issues”, said Ambassador Jansons. “We think that there is a potential in spite of geographic distance. There is a potential to explore and uncover the connection points of mutually useful exchanges in the political and economic area as well as within the international organisations which Zimbabwe and Latvia both participate. I am very impressed by the level of interest and reception that I am receiving here in Zimbabwe. From the side of Latvia, we are keen to develop and strengthen our links, contacts and cooperation with the African countries in general, today and tomorrow with Zimbabwe in particular”, said the Latvian Visiting Ambassador. Last week the country also received a business delegation from the Sverdlovsk region of Russia which came on a mission to explore areas of economic Cooperation.