The Herald PARIS. — Real Betis were dealt a tough Europa League last 16 draw against Erik ten Hag’s Manchester United but the Spanish football side are in good hands when it comes to facing the Red Devils. Former Manchester City coach Manuel Pellegrini has curated an impressive record against the English Premier League giants and will believe he can mastermind another victory over Barcelona’s conquerors in the play-off round. Pellegrini and Real Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti exchanged words after their sides shared a 0-0 draw on Sunday in the Spanish La Liga, joking about Liverpool’s emphatic 7-0 victory over Manchester United at Anfield earlier on. The Chilean will be the happier of the two, ahead of today’s first leg visit to Old Trafford (kick-off 10pm), while Ancelotti’s Madrid must now host a Liverpool side with a newfound spring in their step in the Champions League next week. Pellegrini, at Manchester City between 2013-2016, and later at West Ham, has only suffered defeat three times in 13 clashes with United, and will look to capitalise on their shock defeat and dented confidence. He has earned five wins and five draws, becoming the first ever coach to defeat four different Manchester United managers in the English Premier League — Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, Jose Mourinho, Louis van Gaal and David Moyes. Pellegrini also shared four goalless draws with Alex Ferguson’s United in the Champions League, while at Villarreal. Hopes are high at Betis that Pellegrini and his team can cause an upset. “We have to face them, be humble, play with personality and make it a complicated tie (for them),” said Betis team manager Alexis Trujillo. “One of the important factors is playing the second game with the support of the fans and knowing what we have to do to eliminate our opponents. “Betis fans should be happy with the magnitude of the tie. We have to do well at Old Trafford and keep our hopes high in the first leg to see if we can go through in the return.” Known as the “Engineer” because of the civil engineering degree he studied in Chile, Pellegrini impressed on Spain’s east coast between 2004-2009, driving his Juan Riquelme-inspired Villarreal to the Champions League semi-finals in 2006 and finishing second in La Liga in 2008. After stints at Real Madrid — finishing second again in the league — and Malaga, Pellegrini took over at Manchester City, winning the English Premier League in 2014, beating Liverpool to the title.  He was chosen by former Barcelona directors Txiki Begiristain and Ferran Soriano as the man to keep Pep Guardiola’s seat warm. After leaving in 2016, he spent two years at Hebei China Fortune and returned to England with West Ham, before taking over at Real Betis in 2020 — his 15th club.  The coach guided Betis to their first silverware since 2005 against Valencia in last year’s Copa del Rey final, playing creative, attacking football but also showing backbone. — AFP.