The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS’ blunt strike force has been their biggest let-down over the past seven barren years. And there is no sign of improvement with coach Herbert “Jompano” Maruwa in a race against time to address the flaws. The 2023 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season kicks-off next week and Maruwa is scratching his head with none of his strikers able to register their name on the score-sheet in all the club’s four pre-season friendly games. There have been positive signs from the way the Glamour Boys are carrying themselves in the field of play especially in their passing game, thanks largely to the new philosophy brought about by Maruwa and his assistant Genesis “Kaka” Mangombe. DeMbare have played four prre-season practice or friendly matches against Premiership newboys Sheasham, First Division side Dulibadzimu and Black Rhinos twice. The beat Sheasham 1-0 in Gweru, accounted for Dulibadzimu 2-0 in Beitbridge while they won once against Black Rhinos (2-0) and lost once to the same team (1-0) But of all the five goals they have managed to put past their opponents, none has come from a striker with captain Frank Makarati scoring against Sheasham while midfielders Tendai Matindife and Emmanuel Paga found the target in the match against Black Rhinos with Paga and Elvis Moyo scoring against Dulibadzimu. Such could be the strike-force crisis at the Glamour Boys once again that all of the forwards have also failed to provide even a single assist in all the five goals. Of course, one of them, Nyasha Chintuli, hit the initial strike that was parried back into play by Sheasham goalkeeper for Makarati to score but this is a department which is giving Maruwa some sleepless nights . Chintuli was plucked from Manica Diamonds where he struggled for scoring form last season, having started the term on a brighter note, scoring four goals in two matches while he was still with Ngezi Platinum Stars. But once he failed to handle the pressure, which came with hefty expectations upon his arrival at Manica Diamonds, Chintuli fizzled out and spent the season just like an ordinary striker. But Maruwa saw some instincts which he admired in the former Triangle player and the DeMbare gaffer is hopeful once the season gets underway, he will switch on and shrug off the same ghost which he failed to deal with at Manica Diamonds. Even Maruwa’s trusted cadre Eli Ilunga, who was good enough to make the Soccer Stars’ calendar last term, hasn’t stepped up to the task in the friendly games played so far. Ilunga was signed from Maruwa’s former team Black Rhinos with the coach expressing confidence the Congolese striker will add value to the Glamour Boys. The big forward scored a sublime goal, which, with better organisation from the administration, could have competed equally well for the global Puskas award in the army team’s second leg match-up against Highlanders at Barbourfields last year. On a chilly drizzling day in the City of Kings, Ilunga hit the ball from his own half with incredible perfection, catching the Bosso goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda off-guard to trigger applause even from the Highlanders supporters. And Maruwa will be hoping the boy, who he signed at Rhinos last year after being offloaded by FC Platinum, will have the right mentality to sparkle at Dynamos this season. Tinashe Makanda, part of that worst-performing strike-force in the league last season, is still around and the hope is he will click with the new recruits and help Dynamos finally break a seven-year wait for the league title. Evans Katema is also still around with no team showing any interest in him despite being offered for transfer and should he stay, as is now likely, he may play limited roles at the Harare giants. Maruwa told The Herald he was alive to his strike-force shortcomings and he was knuckling down on them with the season just around. “Yes, I agree that the forward department has not been firing as much as we would like to see them doing and the problem is not unique to Dynamos alone,” said Maruwa. “That means, it is a national problem but we need to hammer out the key elements and principles that will make them better goal-scorers. We have to train those we already have and try to improve them. “We believe those players who we have in our fold are capable of doing wonders if they work hard. The password, like always, is hard work and focus.” Maruwa said he is also looking for another striker to complement those he already has. A blunt strike force was apportioned most of the blame last season when Dynamos played well but found themselves finishing third in a season they were expected to do well. The frontline, which had Katema, Makanda and the duo of Cameroonian Albert Eonde and Alex Orotomal of Nigeria, scored just a single goal between them with Paga, Bill Antonio and Makarati providing most of the goals Dynamos notched.