The Herald LONDON. — World number one Novak Djokovic has withdrawn from this week’s Indian Wells Masters tennis event with the Serb unable to enter the United States. The tournament announced his withdrawal on Sunday night. Play in the combined ATP-WTA event begins tomorrow at Indian Wells Tennis Garden and runs through March 19. Rick Scott, said on Twitter that Homeland Security had rejected Djokovic’s vaccine waiver request, which would have allowed him to play back-to-back at Indian Wells and Miami, which runs March 19-April 2. A statement from Indian Wells organisers released on Sunday read: “World No. 1 Novak Djokovic has withdrawn from the 2023 BNP Paribas Open. With his withdrawal, Nikoloz Basilashvili moves into the field.” The 22-time Grand Slam winner (35) had applied for special permission to enter the US because he is not vaccinated against Covid-19. The US requires international visitors to be vaccinated and proof will be required until at least April 10. The US is ending its Covid-19 emergency declaration on May 11, which will allow foreign air travelers to enter the county without being vaccinated. Djokovic missed last year’s US Open because of his vaccination status. “World number one Novak Djokovic has withdrawn from the 2023 BNP Paribas Open. With his withdrawal, Nikoloz Basilashvili moves into the field,” organisers said in a statement. Indian Wells — one of the most prestigious tournaments on the tennis calendar outside of the Grand Slams — starts on 6 March. On Friday the United States Tennis Association and the US Open said they were “hopeful” Djokovic would be allowed to play this month’s Indian Wells and Miami Masters 1 000 events. Djokovic, who also missed last year’s Australian Open and was deported from the country because of his vaccination status, has said he would skip Grand Slams rather than have a Covid-19 vaccination. He was permitted to travel to Melbourne in January and won a record-extending 10th Australian Open title, tying Rafael Nadal’s men’s record of 22 Grand Slam wins. Indian Wells tournament director Tommy Haas said in January that it would be a “disgrace” if Djokovic was not allowed to compete this year. On Friday, the US Open Twitter account posted: “Novak Djokovic is one the greatest champions our sport has ever seen. “The USTA and US Open are hopeful that Novak is successful in his petition to enter the country, and that the fans will be able to see him back in action at Indian Wells and Miami.” Djokovic has won Indian Wells five times in the past, most recently in 2016. The Serb, who also missed last year’s Australian Open due to his vaccination status, has said he would skip Grand Slams rather than have a Covid vaccine. Djokovic claimed his 22nd Grand Slam title at the 2023 Australian Open in January, beating Stefanos Tsitsipas in straight sets in the final. The 35-year-old, who suffered a first defeat of the season when he lost to Daniil Medvedev in the semi-finals in Dubai last week, is now set to return to action on clay at the Monte-Carlo Masters in April. — BBC Sport