The Herald Crime Reporter Police are worried over killings emanating from petty disputes, family and workplace disagreements countrywide, especially when people have been drinking. The law enforcers urged people to find peaceful ways of resolving differences without resorting to violence. In a statement, national police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said: “The Zimbabwe Republic Police is concerned with the continued loss of lives due to petty disputes, especially at beer outlets and other public places. This includes at family level and work stations.” On Thursday last week, police in Zvishavane arrested Obert Vengesa Nyoni after Benny Mukuta died two days after being kicked and hit with sticks following an argument during beer drinking at Vengesa Business Centre in the Masunda area. The suspect and his friends had taken the victim’s beer without his consent. The second suspect, Simbarashe Nyevhe, was arrested on Friday. Police in Kadoma arrested a mine owner, Simbayi Zhakata (67) in connection with the killing of Steven Matondo (21), who was shot dead with a Mossberg rifle on Friday at Zurich 112 Mine, Arda Doreens Farm, Battlefields. Asst Comm Nyathi said Matondo and his friends had allegedly made noise by banging the doors of several houses at the compound and this did not go down well with Zhakata. In another case, police in Mazowe are investigating the fatal stabbing of Webster Ndlovu by a suspect only identified as Tatenda alias Random, following an argument over an undisclosed issue on Friday at White City Mine, Chigumira Farm. Again on Friday, police in Harare arrested Peter Sani (39) in connection with the death of Ernest Kavhiya (47) who succumbed to injuries sustained during a fist fight after an argument during a beer drinking binge on January 28 at a bar at Glen View 1 Shopping Centre. On Saturday, police in Harare arrested Obey Francis Tiyago (33) after Munyaradzi Kambudzi (22) died while admitted at Parirenyatwa Hospital after being struck with a snooker stick during a beer drinking spree at a nightclub in Hatcliffe. Police in Dzivaresekwa also recorded a killing where Moses Kalungu (49) died upon admission at a local hospital after being assaulted by a suspect only identified as Chamu. The victim was found with head injuries while lying along Gora Street in Dzivaresekwa 3. Meanwhile, Police in Mt Darwin arrested Edson Chandoza (39) on charges of murder and attempted murder which occurred on Sunday at Tsayi Village in Dotito. Edson and his brother Aleck (40), who is at large, allegedly attacked their mother, Midrone Manuwere (84) and sister Tawanda (36) with a wooden log after accusing their mother of witchcraft. Manuwere succumbed to the injuries sustained during the attack. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police reiterates that the public must exercise self-restraint when faced with disputes or disagreements with friends, relatives or any member of the society. Communities are implored to find peaceful ways of resolving differences or disputes without resorting to violence,” Asst Comm Nyathi said. While all deaths reported to be as the result of an assault start with murder charges, the final charges for trial and sentence can be murder or culpable homicide. Murder needs premeditation or utter recklessness, while the lesser offence of culpable homicide needs the fatal action to be something that the reasonable person would recognise could lead to injury or death. Often, bar brawls end up as culpable homicide if the recklessness was not extreme, as the person responsible for the death did not intend to kill, but their unreasonable action did lead to death.