The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter BRIGHTON “Bucks’’ Bako believes motocross is one of the sports that can be used to effectively stem the scourge of substance abuse and other social menace amongst the youths in this country. Bako, who is father and manager of top rider Emmanuel, said once one starts engaging in motocross, they develop an ultra-keenness which will divorce their minds from detrimental thoughts. Currently, the Government have escalated the fight against drug and substance abuse at a time the scourge has become so rampant amongst the youths some of whom end up committing crime as a result. “Look, motocross can help children grow an interest in the sport the more they do it. The sport also allows one to focus on it and school only. “That is the beauty about this sport. Once one starts riding, they begin to develop more interest in exploring the sport further thereby erasing any detrimental thoughts they could have been harbouring,” said Bako. “We are saying, youths should desist from abusing substances as often this leads to crime which is bad for the society. Motocross is one of the best sports to engage in for one to totally drop drugs. This sport requires strength and maximum concentration and for someone who loves it, drugs will obviously be a no because that would mean focusing less on the sport.” Bako said motocross is growing in leaps and bounds in this country, especially with more families seconding their children to the sport. He said they have already welcomed his brother’s children, Junior and Munyaradzi, to the sport after they have been inspired by the exploits of Emmanuel on the track. The latter is walking with a spring in his step after notching up a 12th place finish in a field of 40 riders in England recently. It was a spirited show from the Zimbabwean who rode a stroke bike with no extras done on it in his debut race at the Ashbrook Hawkstone International Motocross Championship in England. The Ashbrook Hawkstone International is one of the major motocross events on the British calendar and Emmanuel’s participation in this year’s event was arranged by his France-based South African trainer Joe Tavares. Tavares also has two promising young Zimbabwean riders – Mudiwa and Judah Sakupwanya – under his wing. They are the sons of prominent Harare businessman, Scott Sakupwanya, and they were last year introduced to the tough world of motocross racing by Emmanuel’s father, Brighton, who is now on a ‘’crusade’’ of bringing in more youngsters into this exciting motorcycling sport. ‘’Remember, at one stage, the numbers of motocross riders were dwindling in this country, especially those of young bikers, and I decided to deliberately go out there to recruit interested youngsters to build up on these numbers so that the sport of motocross won’t die in Zimbabwe,’’ Brighton Bako said. ‘’So, I’ve managed to bring in or recruit a number of youngsters, including the Sakupwanyas, who are now racing at Donnybrook and I can safely say the future of motocross in this country is bright.’’ He also said Emmanuel is scheduled to participate in the 2023 Junior e-Motocross Series with first of the five-round competition scheduled for May 7 ending on July 16. Meanwhile, the sport recently got a major boost after local businessman Scott Sakupwanya bought 12 motorbikes for use by motocross riders. Ranging from 125cc to 450cc, the bikes have been handed over for use by riders regardless of gender or race. And the Mabvuku-born businessman whose two children — Mudiwa and Judah — are also into motocross has received applause from the sports community. Brighton Bako said the coming in of the motorbikes has actually triggered some comebacks from veteran riders who had left the sport due to lack of resources. “The assistance is massive, we would like to thank Sakupwanya for his kind heart. He has bought 12 latest motorbikes. “We have seen some riders like Tristan Grainger and Kuda Mhene (Jnr) coming back following the delivery of the bikes. Sakupwanya is also assisting in the maintenance of the Donnybrook Raceway with international riders now developing some interest in local races. The support is massive. You see someone going out of their way just to develop the sport. He actually loves this sport and I think with more and more support like what he has pledged, we are going to see this sport making a huge boom.” Sakupwanya first developed an interest in this sport while growing up in Mabvuku. In fact, Donnybrook Raceway is located adjacent to the area where Sakupwanya was raised. While growing up in Mabvuku, he would clean bikes for the racers at the raceway and that’s how he grew his interest in the sport. Now the councillor for Mabvuku/Tafara, Sakupwanya is bankrolling the refurbishment of sports facilities in and around the area, including the iconic motorsport venue of Donnybrook.