The Herald Japan last Friday gave Zimbabwe a US$4.7 million grant to procure fertiliser for “vulnerable” small-scale farmers. Speaking at the signing ceremony for the grant, Finance and Economic, Development Minister, Prof Mthuli Ncube said the grant will go a long way in cushioning small scale farmers facing viability challenges as a result fertiliser cost increases in the wake of the Russia — Ukraine conflict. The two countries are the biggest producers and suppliers of fertilisers in the world. According to the World Bank, fertiliser prices rose by 30 percent since the conflict started last year. “Zimbabwe, like all other countries, has not been spared from this unfortunate development, and as an agro-based economy with most producers being small scale farmers, our people have largely borne the brunt of the unsustainable fertiliser prices,” Ncube said. “It is against this background that the Government greatly appreciates the timely intervention by the Government of Japan, which will go a long way in cushioning our vulnerable smallholder farming communities from the soaring global fertiliser prices,” he said. Ncube said the Japanese grant complemented government’s existing investment into the agricultural sector, particularly small scale. Government is supporting the climate-proofed Presidential Inputs Scheme (Pfumvudza / Intwasa Programme), under the Vulnerable Input Support Scheme, which entails provision of inputs for vulnerable smallholder farmers to boost their productivity. Through these and other interventions, the country has witnessed increased grain production in recent years. “I am confident that the support from the Government of Japan will contribute immensely towards the attainment of our national priorities through boosting the productivity of our small-scale farmers,” Ncube said. “Considering the targeted beneficiaries of this programme, the support will also be instrumental in reducing rural poverty, as the majority (of the people) resides in rural areas,” he added. — New Ziana