The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Rugby Union have sent their condolences to former Shabanie Mine and Zvishavane Bulls player Danmore Mukuta who passed away on Saturday in the capital. ZRU, through their president Aaron Jani, said they are saddened by the passing on of the former player who has contributed a lot in the sport. “It is with a heavy heart that we announce the sad passing on of Danmore Mukuta, a former Shabanie Mine and Zvishavane Bulls rugby player, a rugby coach, mentor, brother and friend. A member of Midlands Rugby Board. He passed on 26 February 2023 at the Avenues Clinic in Harare. May His Soul Rest in Peace. “He had the love and passion for the game that saw him invest a lot of his time and effort in reviving rugby at the MacAdams Stadium in Shabanie. “The President of the Union, Jani and his executive and board would like to express their sincere condolences to the Mukuta family, Shabanie Rugby community, the Midlands Rugby Board and the entire rugby community,” ZRU stated. Jani described Mukuta as a legend who walked the talk as he strove to revive the sleeping giant in local rugby — Shabanie. Meanwhile, Jeff Madhake coached Pitbulls continued wih their fine form in the Paramount Garments Under-20 Rugby League after they got the better Old Hararians 34-28 in a thrilling encounter at Harare Sports Club at the weekend. Madhake described the win as a special one which will go a long way in helping them their title defence. “The boys had to dig deep in the second half and they did well. They applied our game-plan well and played according to our pep talk,” said Madhake. Tichafara Makwanya, the Old Hartaarians coach, was not happy with the outcome as they prepare to face Old Georgians in today’s semi-final playoffs. “Results matters most in these games and the final result is not good enough we lost. We will get back to the drawing board and dust up ourselves for next match,” said Makwanya. Pitbulls will face Harare Sports Club in the semi-finals set for today.