The Herald Gilbert Munetsi-Sports Correspondent WITH professional boxing yet to host a tournament since the beginning of the year, a local stable has unveiled its 10-tournament calendar of events that will begin on March 31 and wind up at the end of the year. Delta Force Boxing and MMA Academy also  officially sealed a working partnership with a local corporate, RM Plumbing World, which will see regular events being held in the capital. According to the arrangement, a good number of them will have an international flair as boxers from the region will be invited to fight on some of the cards. Delta Force director Clyde Musonda – who early this week also confirmed WBC champion Kudakwashe Chiwandire’s WBC Mexico world title itinerary – said the partnership with RM Plumbing was a significant milestone in the advancement and development of boxing for the sector as a whole. “This partnership comes at a very opportune time when we, as a nation, are battling the scourge of drug and substance abuse as the majority of our youths find themselves idle and out of employment. This then leads to the destruction of potentially talented individuals who could otherwise be valuable contributing members of society,” he said. “Beginning March 31, we will have our first installment of the Pound4Pound series, which is a monthly fixture that takes place every last Friday of the month. “We strive to host international tournaments because we recognize that most of the time when we go outside the country, we’re not competent enough as we will only be fighting inhouse. There is great need, therefore, for us to upgrade our skills and be better contenders hence the decision to bring in boxers from other countries around us.” Countries that have graced previous editions of Pound4Pound include Namibia, Zambia and Malawi. Anchor sponsor of the series, RM Plumbing world, through its Chief Executive Officer Robson Muromba, committed to support the boxing cause in line with their social corporate responsibility gesture. “Our corporate philosophy is to put our best foot forward in whatever we involve ourselves in and to build lasting solutions beyond the foreseeable future. “Our partnership with Delta Force will not only ensure that athletes are fully equipped for the fight they are currently facing, but also prepare them and equip them for life after their sport careers,” Muromba said. RM Plumbing World are also the official sponsors of “Take Money”, the flagship boxer of Delta Force, who in a fortnight travels to Mexico for a decisive contest with WBCV world champion Yamileth Mercado. Commenting on the need for the promotion and advancement of interests of the girl child, Melanie Musonda, the Delta Force administrator, appealed for more support for Chiwandire, particularly at this time of year when she faces the biggest challenge of her boxing life and as the world commemorates Women’s Month. “We’re in the month of celebrating women’s contribution to the history of Africa and the world at large and, as a nation, we’re encouraged to join hands to support especially our female athletes. “Lets us continue to fight gender-based violence this month as we recognize and acknowledge women’s achievements in the midst of the numerous challenges they continue to face. For the athletes of the female gender, our word as Delta Force is: extraordinary things are not done by extraordinary people, but by people who work extra hard to achieve the extraordinary,” she said.