The Herald LONDON. — Mikel Arteta offered a worrying injury update on Leandro Trossard after Arsenal’s dramatic win over Bournemouth in the English Premiership football on Saturday. The Gunners came from 2-0 down to produce a sensational comeback in the final half an hour which culminated in Reiss Nelson’s sensational 97th minute half-volley.   Victory moved Arteta’s side back five points clear of Manchester City who had dispatched Newcastle 2-0 in routine fashion earlier on Saturday. The only downside for the league leaders was the injury sustained by January signing Trossard which could rule him out for a significant period of the season. With Eddie Nketiah also injured and Gabriel Jesus not yet ready to make his comeback after three months out, the Trossard setback could prove damaging for Arsenal’s title bid. ‘’We don’t know obviously he felt something when he was tracking back after a corner and he asked me to get him off straight away so not good news,’’ said Arteta. ‘’We don’t know the extent of the injury but especially with Eddie in the position he’s in we are a bit short.’’ Trossard added: ‘’I felt something in my groin when I was tracking back in the first half. I had to come off. It looks like something muscular. But hopefully I will be okay before next game.” The significance of the victory wasn’t lost on Arteta, however, who hailed the win as the best of his tenure to date. He added: ‘’It was madness from the first second. We kept trying and dominating the game. We had a mountain to climb and we took it bit by bit. ‘’We had the hunger to go for the first goal. From then the atmosphere changed. Reiss Nelson hasn’t featured much because he has been injured. He comes on and puts in that performance. It was incredible to experience the emotion with the crowd. It’s going to stick with us. ‘’I am going to remember this day for a few things. I loved the initiative, the courage, their personality and the way they made things happen. ‘’When its ugly and when its difficult, that’s what big teams do. We have to make it easier for ourselves. But this is the Premier League. — Metro.