The Herald Tadious Manyepo Youth Interaction Sports Reporter IT used to be a hub for nurturing talented youngsters. Both in sport and other life skills. So many entrepreneurs and sportspersons honed their craft at this centre. Zimbabwe Warriors superstar Marshal Munetsi who is making waves at French Ligue 1 team Reims in part owes his art to this facility. Boxer Monalisa “Queen of the Jungle” Sibanda, who is preparing for a world title challenge was groomed at this venue. The list is endless. But the Mabvuku Sports Complex which is popularly known as the Number One Grounds has over the years been reduced into a ghostly shell. Dilapidated and run-down. Falling perimeter wall. Bushy patches which have provided favourable habitat to dangerous reptiles including venomous snakes. Open defecation. It’s  an eyesore. Some residents have seen an ideal place to plant their crops which are flourishing on the back of effective rainfall received this summer. Just a single football pitch, out of three is working. But it is in bad state too. A basketball court, which is crying for attention is used here and there by ambitious amateurs of the game. A cricket field, rugby pitches-tqo of them, tennis courts, a hall which houses combat and weightlifting sections are all in a sorry state. The situation is dire especially in a country where drug abuse has become fashionable amongst the youths. But a Good Samaritan has stepped stepped in. Through his foundation, the Sakupwanya Foundation, Scott Sakupwanya, who is also the councillor for Mabvuku-Tafara has taken it upon himself to redevelop the venue. Principally, the work has already begun. Bricks, cement and other materials are on sight. Effectively, a significant chunk of the youths have been employed. And they can’t hide their excitement. The Herald visited the facility on Wednesday where Sakupwanya chose to celebrate his birthday amongst his kith and kin, him having been raised in this sprawling high-density suburb. And the carnival had a national appeal. And the renovations have sent the youths buzzing. Tinotenda Hombakomba, a one time trialist with Ali Sundowns, a football nursery based in Mabvuku left soccer to pursue engineering. He cited unsuitable facilities as his main reason to dumb football. “I wanted to play football. I was once at Ali Sundowns and by now I should have been playing in the Premier Soccer League with some top clubs or even beyond the borders,” said Hombakomba. “But the state of the pitches drove me off the game. I often suffered ankle and knee injuries and I just couldn’t find it logical to continue suffering. “I am very happy that the ground will be revamped and that way many budding footballers will have a decent venue to nurture their talent. “I would like to salute Scott Foundation for their philanthropic work they are doing not just in sport but in the general society.” Twenty-three-year old Esnath Kasirori said the centre will help the youths in more ways than one. “We are in an era where youths see drug abuse as something fashionable. They don’t have something to occupy them. And they end up resorting to vice,” she said. “I am sure this centre, like what it used to do in the past, will address redundancy. “Besides being largely a sporting venue, the complex also has a hall where budding entrepreneurs can master their skills. There is also a general recreational area inside the venue where families can gather. “If upgraded to its former glorious self, the facility can even host weddings and other high-profile events and we can only salute the works being done.” Tabeth Chari (26) said she is expecting to get a job once the renovation works begin. “We have been promised jobs once the works begin. I am sure we will be able to earn a decent salary on this job. Once the works are complete, obviously more jobs will also be created,” said Chari. “Grounds tenders, security, match officials and stewards will all be needed. “So I think this is what we need as the youths. It keeps us away from engaging in societal vice.” Sakupwanya said he has the youths at heart. “The youths occupy a very special place in my heart. “They are the future so we need to take care of them just like we do to the elderly,” said Sakupwanya. “Let’s all join the fight against drug abuse and social vice. We will see to it that this facility is redeveloped to its former glory days.” He also donated a consignment of goodies including wheelchairs for the disabled youths and of course others. One of the beneficiaries, Amon Musarurwa (19) said he had been unable to move outside the house on his own.