The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere Herald Reporter Zimbabwe’s voice on pertinent societal issues is important and should be heard at the highest levels as the country has an important role to play in Africa, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Portugal Mr Francisco Andre has said. He made the remarks after meeting Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Ambassador Frederick Shava on the sidelines of the ongoing United Nations Conference of the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) in Doha, Qatar. The Portuguese government, he said, was also encouraging companies in the European Union country to explore opportunities in Zimbabwe. He said his Government had been encouraged by the economic space opened in Zimbabwe under the Second Republic. “We discussed several subjects important to both our countries. We are facing tremendous challenges due to the consequences of what is going on in the world right now,” said Mr Andre. “None of us live isolated in the world. We have common problems with common solutions and for two countries that know each other so much, we must work together for the future. “Zimbabwe is a very important country playing a crucial role in the region and we all must not only recognize that but we should encourage Zimbabwe to play this important role in the region, not only in the region,” he said. “This is why the voice of Zimbabwe is so important to be heard at the highest possible level, especially under the framework of the United Nations.” On the economy, the two countries had many challenges ahead and were supposed to take comfort in the common opportunities they had. There were thousands of companies and economic engines in the region that were supposed to pay more attention to what was going on in Zimbabwe in terms of opportunities and shared prosperity. “This is why we also agreed that as soon as possible we should visit each other and pave a way for our economic agencies to pursue that objective and work together,” said Mr Andre. In his address to the LDC Minister Shava said Zimbabwe recently approved the Doha Programme of Action (DPoA) for LDCs at a time when the most vulnerable nations are facing multifaceted obstacles, including soaring debt, export marginalisation, energy poverty and the adverse effects of climate change and natural disasters. LDCs were the battleground on which the 2030 Agenda would be won or lost and stakes were, therefore, high both countries. Minister Shava said LDCs were a litmus test against which history would judge the effectiveness of the international community’s efforts on the cardinal principle of “leaving no one behind”. “As a landlocked developing country, Zimbabwe fully understands the plight of the LDCs, as we share similar developmental challenges. “Zimbabwe reiterates that although LDCs, LLDCs and SIDS, are facing challenges peculiar to their respective groups, they do share a lot of commonalities that bond them together. In fact, 46 LDCs are part of the family of 91 countries in vulnerable situations, together with the LLDCs and SIDS. Furthermore, 17 of the LDCs are landlocked. “In view of their special circumstances, Zimbabwe firmly believes that it is important to continue our relentless efforts to address the challenges encountered by these groups of countries, which also have overlapping membership. Zimbabwe was pleased that the Doha Programme of Action also recognised the unique challenges faced by the Landlocked Least Developed Countries, and was making a commitment to addressing the challenges. “Zimbabwe stands ready to continue cooperating and sharing experiences with LDCs, in pursuit of economic development,” said Minister Shava.