The Herald LIVERPOOL. — “A disgrace”, “shambles”, “embarrassing”. Ex-Manchester United captain Gary Neville did not hold back after watching his former side torn apart by a devastating Liverpool team on Sunday. The 7-0 thrashing was United’s joint-heaviest competitive defeat — matching those by the same score against Blackburn Rovers in April 1926, Aston Villa in December 1930 and Wolves in December 1931. Six of the goals came in a stunning second-half Liverpool display, with their opponents simply unable — or possibly even unwilling — to cope. Neville singled out captain Bruno Fernandes for individual criticism. “The second half has been an absolute disgrace,” he said on Sky Sports. “It was a shambles, epitomised by captain Bruno Fernandes, who has been embarrassing at times. “They’ve not understood the dangers of this fixture. The Manchester United players have been eaten alive out there.” Fernandes’ frustration at the events unfolding around him became more apparent as the half wore on. At one point, when substitute Stefan Bajcetic skipped past him by the touchline, he stopped rather than trying to chase down the young midfielder. Neville was also angered by Fernandes appearing to gesture to the bench when Marcus Rashford was substituted in the 85th minute, possibly to question why he was not taken off. “He is holding his hands up asking: “Why am I not coming off?” Neville said during the game, before later adding: “I have had enough of Fernandes throwing his arms around, whinging at everyone, holding his face when touched. “That wasn’t a captain’s performance from a Manchester United player and I am sure Erik ten Hag will deal with that. “I am sure normal service will be resumed but they have to own that because that is a disgrace.” Fernandes also appeared to give the referee’s assistant a push, which was pointed out by some fans on social media. Fellow former Manchester United captain Roy Keane was equally dismayed by Fernandes’ behaviour. “Fernandes’ body language today was nothing short of disgraceful,” Keane said on Sky Sports. “A really talented boy, he’s your captain, but his body language, waving his arms, not running back . . . you wouldn’t be happy with him in your dressing room.” Despite his reaction on the pitch, Fernandes did front up to the media afterwards. “It is very frustrating, disappointing, sad because it is a really bad result,” he said. “We had setbacks in the past and we have to come back quickly again. This is what Manchester United are about. We can go down but we have to get back up.” What went wrong for Manchester United? Everything. Or at least it certainly felt like it. Keane added that United’s “senior players” went “missing” when the “going got tough” and would be “embarrassed” and “ashamed of their performance”. It came seven days after the club won the Carabao Cup, beating Newcastle at Wembley for a first trophy since Ten Hag’s arrival as manager last May. The league form, by and large, had been strong too — after opening with two defeats, they had picked up 49 points from 22 matches before the Anfield annihilation. But there were signs of trouble against Liverpool, even during a first half where they had some really good moments. Casemiro was uncharacteristically sloppy with his passes. are frightening.” — BBC Sport