The Herald LIVERPOOL. — Erik ten Hag has branded his Manchester United players “unprofessional’’ for their 7-0 defeat to Liverpool on Sunday night and says he is “ashamed’’ of his side’s performance at Anfield. United’s impressive run of form came crashing to a halt on Sunday as they suffered their heaviest defeat of Ten Hag’s reign at Old Trafford. Cody Gakpo put Liverpool in front before half but a staggering collapse from United in the second half saw Liverpool score six more without reply as Mohamed Salah and Darwin Nunez scored two each, Gakpo netted his second of the game, while Roberto Firmino struck in the closing stages to complete the win. “It was a really bad performance and the worst of the year,’’ Ten Hag told BBC Five Live after United’s defeat. “We lost the game at the end of the first-half and at the start of the second but you have to keep your head up and we didn’t. “It’s all about showing discipline and we didn’t, so that’s when you start conceding goals. “It’s a really unprofessional performance and unnecessary. You have to do your jobs and we didn’t.’’ When asked about letting United’s travelling supporters down, Ten Hag said: “That was tough and we really have to thank them. “I can’t blame them for leaving because it was a really bad performance, I’m ashamed myself for the fans today.’’ In a separate post-match interview with Sky Sports, Ten Hag said he is ‘’disappointed and angry’’ with his players and revealed he told his squad that their display was “unacceptable’’. “I don’t have an explanation,’’ Ten Hag said. “In the first half we were quite in control. Second half at the start we gave two goals away. There was no team anymore. We didn’t stick to the plan. There were 11 individuals. “I don’t know, it’s really bad. I have given my opinion (to the players). It was unprofessional. You always have to stick together as a team. We didn’t do that. There was no discipline. You have can setbacks but you have to stick together and do your job. “We made the wrong decisions. That for me is unprofessional. I’m really disappointed and angry. We let our fans down. As a squad, as a team, you cannot allow this. You have to stick together and support each other and fight for each other. You have to defend. We didn’t do that and for me that is really unprofessional. ‘’We have made a lot of progress but you see what happens when you don’t keep standards. — Metro