The Herald Crime Reporter A 26-year-old man from Concession is on the run after he allegedly killed his ex-wife with an axe, accusing her of having several boyfriends. Brighton Justice struck Estery Zulu (26), thrice on the head with an axe and she died on the spot. He fled and police have launched a manhunt with national police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi saying he first smashed her cellphone. Police in Karoi have arrested Brendon Chauke (23) on charges of attempted murder after he stabbed the complainant aged 28 with an Okapi knife on the chest, elbow and back after an argument over US$1. He then used the knife to stab on the head the man who raced to help the first man. Investigations are in progress. On Tuesday, police in Tsholotsho arrested Melusi Ncube on charges of attempted murder after he allegedly stabbed a man of 42 with an okapi knife on the stomach after a misunderstanding over a girlfriend. The incidents come after police recently launched a manhunt for a 37-year-old man who is on the run after he allegedly fatally stabbed another man he suspected of having an affair with his ex-girlfriend in Chiredzi. Tongai Ingwani stabbed Leeborn Chitsutsu (35) with an okapi knife four times on the thigh following the argument. Police in Norton have arrested Admire Muchengi (23) after he allegedly on Sunday at Plot 21, Midland Village, Sandringham fatally struck Herbert Javangwe (69) with a log for unknown reasons. Police in Harare were also appealing for information which may assist in the investigation of a suspected murder case in which the victim, Kennedy Lovemore (24) died on admission at hospital after being found bleeding with a deep stab wound on the shoulder along a footpath opposite Koala Park Abattoir, Retreat Farm, Waterfalls. Police in Makosa are also appealing for information which may lead to the arrest of Lickson Tsabora (28), who is being sought in connection with the killing on February 2 at Kaupfu Village, Mudzi. The suspect fatally assaulted Sturborn Chikira (34)with a hoe, after the victim had approached him to resolve a misunderstanding which had risen between the two during a beer-drinking spree at Mawuyu Shops. In Zaka, police were investigating another case of murder in which a suspect, Efeso Chabata who is on the run assaulted his father, Calisto Chabata (52), to death with a wooden log after a misunderstanding over an unknown issue.