The Herald Crime Reporter A man jailed for attempting to kill his father four years ago has been arrested for allegedly murdering him last weekend over an undisclosed reason in Gokwe. Bornface Siamakweza (age not given) who was recently released from Hwahwa Prison, was arrested over the weekend after he slit his father’s throat with a sickle. Police said the accused is now assisting with investigations. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the arrest. “Police in Gokwe have arrested Bornface Siamakweza in connection with the gruesome murder of his father, Tokisi Gareti Siamakweza aged 69 on March 3, 2023 at Mukondo Village, Gokwe South. “The suspect allegedly cut the victim’s throat with a sickle for unknown reasons. The suspect had been recently released from Hwahwa Prison after serving a four-year prison sentence for a case of attempted murder involving his father in 2018,” he said. Meanwhile, police in Harare have arrested Kumbirai Philemon Zengeya (54), Tsitsi Sadomba (44) and Timothy Zengeya (23) in connection with a case of attempted murder in which the suspects allegedly took turns to assault the victim, Sharon Chirima (30) with iron bars, ropes and fists before burning her with wood after accusing her of stealing US$500 belonging to Kumbirai Zengeya. Further, Kumbirai Zengeya allegedly forced the victim to drink an unknown substance before Tsitsi Sadomba inserted her fingers in the victim’s private parts. In Bulawayo, police are investigating circumstances surrounding a case of murder in which a psychiatric patient, Emmanuel Sibanda (40) became violent and killed another psychiatric patient, Smile Ndlovu (28) at Ingutsheni Hospital in Belmont last Friday. The suspect also attacked two other psychiatric patients. Police in Chinhoyi have arrested Cossam Chitsiko (43) in connection with a case of murder which occurred last Thursday at a house in Rujeko. The suspect stabbed his wife, Alice Machingura (51) twice on the stomach with a kitchen knife after a domestic dispute. The victim died on her way to the hospital. In Harare, police are investigating circumstances surrounding an incident in which Priscilla Chidamba (27) and her son, Innocent Mujeye (7) died after allegedly consuming a suspected poisonous substance last Wednesday in Glen Norah C. Priscilla Chidamba’s three-year-old daughter is admitted at a local hospital after drinking the same substance. Police in Harare are also appealing for information which may assist in the investigation of a murder case in which a car dealer, Joseph Ruzvidzo (40) was found dead on February 27, 2023 near Zimmeal along Simon Mazorodze Road. The victim’s hands and legs were tied with a seat belt. Meanwhile, police in Harare are also investigating another murder case in which Billy Rutendo Takawira (20) died while admitted at Parirenyatwa Hospital after being attacked by unknown assailants in the CBD at the intersection of Chinhoyi Street and Samora Machel Avenue. In Nkayi, police have arrested Lifat Mpofu (38) in connection with a case of murder which occurred at Gwampa Forest, near Petani Village. The suspect and his accomplices, Manager Mpofu and Talent Chikanya, allegedly tied the victim to a tree before taking turns to assault him with switches indiscriminately all over the body after accusing the victim of stealing a heifer belonging to Lifat Mpofu. The victim was later found dead at his homestead where he was dumped by the suspects. Manager Mpofu and Talent Chikanya are on the run.