The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Under-21 women’s field hockey team captain Jorja Jones is confident the effort they put in for their build-up to the Junior Africa Cup that comes to life this weekend in Egypt will carry them through. The tournament, featuring both men’s and women’s teams, begins on Sunday and runs until next Thursday in Ismailia, Egypt. Zimbabwe joins Kenya, South Africa and Egypt for the event. All the four participating countries are fielding both men’s and women’s teams. Zimbabwe’s teams left for Egypt yesterday and with the continental showpiece also serving as a qualifier for the FIH Junior World Cup, both sides are chasing a top two finish to qualify. The top two teams per gender qualify. “We had a January camp and I think that we have made some great improvement since then. The team is bonding really nice together. “So our goal is obviously to go to the World Cup. We would love to win the Junior Africa Cup… Our coaches, our managers, everyone has put in the time, the work, the effort, so our main goal is to go to the World Cup,” said Jones. Zimbabwe’s first game is against South Africa on Sunday. The UK-based player is aware it’s not going to be an easy task competing against their neighbours who have more game time and are a good side. “Our level of competition is going to be high. We always look at South Africa and we always are scared but this time we are not going to be scared. We are going in as underdogs and we are hopefully going to take the win. But yes they are going to bring in some serious competition. “Yes, it’s going to be very intense and that’s why I think our managers and coaches have been really hard on us from the start because they know what is needed from us, from the experience at the World Cup,” Jones said. The Under-21 women’s side competed at the Junior World Cup last year in South Africa and Jones was part of the team. With the teams facing some financial constraints along the way, Brad Heuer, who is the coach for the women’s side, said it has been an emotional journey as they finally made the trip to Egypt. “It was quite an emotional journey trying to get here… But everyone behind the scenes worked really hard to get us here and now we are finally here. “Obviously being the coach of the ladies, I know them best, I believe they are ready. They know what they need to do. They are all on the same page, they all want to win and they are all working really well together,” said Heuer. The men’s team vice-captain, Tadiwanashe Kamusewu, believes they have a good chance of doing well in the tournament. “The team is looking good to be honest and I am really excited to play with these young players as I am one of the oldest here. “And my expectations going into the tournament, I am hoping to make it to the finals because I have seen some of the Under-21 players from the other nations, like Egypt, South Africa playing and I think we have a fighting chance to make it to the finals and winning it. “It’s quite high expectations as the previous Under-21s came back with a bronze medal, they came third. So we have to beat those expectations and come first or second hopefully,” Kamusewu said. Prince Mwale is in charge of the men’s side. Teams Men Mutsawashe Kanyangarara (captain), Tadiwanashe Kamusewu (vice-captain), Kian Arnold, Tinotenda Chirozvi, Tadiwanashe Chugumira, Nathan Davies, Joseph Ncube, Liam Jones, Akudzweishe Munyonga, Musa Mbonakamwe, Taboka Manyalo, Johan Nel, Dhiren Ramabhai, Onward Shumba, Munashe Makiseni, Ray-Royce Sibanda, Takwana Gaidzanwa (gk), Ross Vic Mills (gk). Women Jorja Jones (captain), Khanyisile Mzizi (vice-captain), Ella Allardice, Tanyaradzwa Changa, Tinodiwanashe Elijah, Doné Erasmus, Chelsey-Lee Hares, Danielle Lowe, Tatenda Maswera, Nakai Mujaranji, Athina Mujiba, Natasha Muwani, Tumi Sibanda, Kaylee Sithole, Rumbidzaiishe Zimuto, Amber Tozana, Bethel Chidzwondo (gk), Tanatswa Mutaramuswa ((gk).