The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Soccer Supporters Association yesterday came out with guns blazing in every direction accusing the leadership at ZIFA and the Sports and Recreation Commission of dragging their feet as Zimbabwe remains suspended from international football by FIFA. The organisation, which represents the interests of a wider section of local football spectators, yesterday called a press conference in Harare to air their grievances on the state of the game in the country. Zimbabwe’s membership was suspended by FIFA in February last year. ZNSSA secretary-general Joseph Mutawu told sports journalists that the local spectators have been deprived of international football for the past year and were anxious to push ZIFA and the Sports Commission to get the suspension lifted. “As Zimbabwean football supporters and fans, we have waited patiently in vain for the return of our football to the international arena. “We had hope that our leaders in the football cockpit were doing the right thing but alas, that hope has faded into thin dry air. “As football supporters, we have been left to pick up the pieces and wonder what could have been done wrong to our number one sport of the nation of Zimbabwe,” said Mutawu. The FIFA suspension has shut Zimbabwe from international events and competitions. The ZNSSA executive believes the prolonged suspension has brought untold suffering to the country’s football landscape. “Zimbabwe has since the suspension missed out on the COSAFA Cup finals, AFCON and World Cup qualifiers. Local clubs were not included in the African Safari competitions. “This came with a huge monetary loss to clubs like Dynamos etc. “Upcoming footballers are missing out on the opportunities to export their talent to lucrative overseas leagues, killing the potential careers of young and promising footballers and their livelihoods. “Zimbabwe (football) can no longer benefit from the FIFA funds which it heavily relies on and was left out on projects to build football infrastructure in member associations. “Referees could no longer be picked for international assignments and this left a big dent in their careers and pockets. “Coaches could no longer upgrade themselves with CAF and FIFA-sanctioned courses. This suspension has left Zimbabwean football in untold suffering and misery.” The football supporters are worried that FIFA could mete out a harsher punishment on Zimbabwe ahead of the organisation’s Congress set to be held in Rwanda next week. Mutawu said the Sports Commission should revisit the FIFA conditions for the lifting of the suspension and consider the official reinstatement of axed ZIFA president Felton Kamambo. Kamambo fellout with the domestic football leadership following allegations of corruption, mismanagement and the sexual harassment of female referees. After his suspension by the Sports Commission, the ZIFA Congress passed a vote of no confidence in him and two other members Philemon Machana and Bryton Malandule. The Sports Commission have said their hands are now tied following the revocation, as they risk interfering in internal affairs of the domestic football politics. Mutawu said the football leadership should find one another to avoid further confrontations with FIFA. “With the FIFA AGM kicking off on the 16th of March in Kigali, Rwanda and number four on their Agenda being the ban and expulsion of a member, and with Zimbabwe being the only banned member, as supporters we have a feeling that it could be more disastrous than now. Hence it is the right time for Mlotshwa and SRC to reinstate Kamambo,” said Mutawu. “As Zimbabwean soccer supporters we are not going to tire until our football returns to normalcy. We are going to demonstrate at your respective offices if need be, until you do the right thing.”