The Herald NAIROBI. — One of Kenya’s leading athletes says she wants to create a “safe place” for the next generation of female stars after starting the country’s first girls-only running camp. As a junior, Mary Ngugi received her training and education at a mixed-gender camp – meaning the 34-year-old, a two-time gold medallist at the World Half Marathon Championships, has seen first-hand the problems young girls can face as they look to build a career in the sport they love. “Being abused by men, harassed, intimidated, not being able to be themselves,” she lists for BBC Sport Africa. “Some are getting pregnant, dropping out of camp because maybe the coaches or the pacers are trying to harass them.” So Mary has launched her new initiative, Nala Track Club. “Nala is an African name for a powerful woman or a lioness. We want these girls to be that: strong, powerful, empowered, someone who can say no, I’m not doing that. “I’m trying to give these girls a safe place so they can be themselves,” she adds. “I’ve always wanted to change what is happening, not just in athletics but also in the society.”  Nala, which opened in October 2022, currently supports eight girls, aged between 14 and 22. It is located in Nyahururu Town, a four-hour drive from the Kenyan capital Nairobi. When BBC Sport Africa visits late in the afternoon, five of the girls arrive soon after, chit-chatting amongst themselves following a day at school. After a quick debrief on how lessons went, they change into their training kit. Mary, who has a daughter of her own, tells them to stop giggling – for her it is important they learn to have a proper voice of their own. “At home, it’s the father who decides what to do, or the brothers. But when these girls are at camp they have the confidence to be themselves.” Mary believes Kenyan society intimidates some young girls, harming their self-confidence. “Everyone is repeating the same: you just need to be a wife, you just need to be a better mother. You can be more than that – you can be a mother (and) an athlete. “You can manage your business, you can manage your contracts, you don’t need someone doing that.” Following a run through the town, the Nala girls arrive at the dusty Nyahururu Stadium for a 40-minute track session. Mary watches on, giving instructions alongside the one female coach attached to the project. “Because they are young, we are coaching them for 1500m and 800m. It’s more about their speed,” she explains. Back at camp, the girls eat and study. Mary even helps with homework because, as Nala bids to rewrite the narrative, hitting the books is equally as important as training on the track. “You have to go to school, whether you can afford it or not,” says Mary decisively. “We are trying to empower these girls to know that I’m not just an athlete.” But not everyone is impressed with Mary’s outlook. She’s received abuse on social media, accusing her of creating bad-mannered women — an accusation she refutes. “I’m definitely not creating rebellious women in society. I’m just trying to tell these girls you can be better, you deserve better.” There is little doubt the camp could be life-changing for some of the girls. “I am happy at Nala Camp because we get all the training facilities,” Millicent Chelangat tells BBC Sport Africa. — BBC Sport Africa.