The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS defender Frank Makarati was on the verge of joining Premiership football champions FC Platinum before the Glamour Boys tabled a lucrative offer of their own, including the captain’s armband to lure him back. Makarati’s initial two-year deal with DeMbare lapsed at the end of last year and a number of clubs, including FC Platinum, showed their interest in the former Ngezi Platinum Stars man. In fact, the Zvishavane club wanted the defender even before the lapse of his contract at Dynamos with coach Norman Mapeza contacting the defender soon after the African Cup of Nations in Cameroon early last year. And after failing to take him to Zvishavane at that time, the miners were hoping to swoop on the 2022 Soccer Star of the Year runners-up this year. Makarati was contacted and he responded positively with the ex-How Mine man keen on landing at the four-time champions. But once they got wind of the developments, Dynamos acted swiftly, offering Makarati an improved deal, including the captaincy to which the defender conceded.  A source at Dynamos told The Herald that Makarati was on his way to Zvishavane and the club’s bosses decided to bait him with the skipper’s armband. “The truth is Makarati had been offered a very good deal at FC Platinum. Actually the defender had been talked to by the team’s technical staff last year,” said the source. “Makarati wanted to join FC Platinum and he was on his way there once his contract at Dynamos ended in December last year. “But Dynamos didn’t want to lose him.  A good offer was tabled and he was promised the captain’s armband. After some considerations, Makarati then decided to extend his stay at Dynamos.” FC Platinum were then forced to look for defensive options elsewhere. With veteran Gift Bello’s age now a concern, the miners needed to add another defender into their fold. And they settled for Misheck Ngwenya who was previously at Triangle. The 25-year-old debuted for FC Platinum in the Castle Challenge Cup against Bulawayo Chiefs at Mandava on Saturday. Partnering Lawrence Mhlanga at the heart of defence, Ngwenya gave a good account of himself in this season-opening tie which the hosts won 2-0 to lift the trophy for a record-extending fourth time in a row. The youngster never put a foot wrong the whole afternoon in a flawless display by the miners who go into the 2023 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League campaign high on confidence after a dominant performance against the Bulawayo team. FC Platinum also have another new defender in 20-year-old Ronald Mate who is expected to provide cover for the seniors including Bello, Nomore Chinyerere, Kelvin Mangiza and Gift Mbweti. On the other hand, Makarati, who opted to stay with DeMbare after the lucrative deal, will be expecting to lead the Glamour Boys to glory. Dynamos have failed to win the league title since 2014 and they have changed coaches six times between then and now with Herbert “Jompano”Maruwa given the mandate to steer the club ahead of the new season which begins at the weekend. Makarati will be expected to lead from the back where several high-profile new defenders, including Kelvin Moyo, Donald Dzvinyai, Elvis Moyo, Wilmore Chimbetu and Tandaishe Magwaza, are touted to do well. Maruwa, who has appointed Emmanuel Jalai and Kevin Moyo as the first and second vice-captains, said Makarati’s leadership skills are beyond any doubt. “Frank (Makarati) is a good leader with excellent commanding skills. I have no doubt he will be able to help us a lot. “We have a good team which can compete well in the league,” said Maruwa.  “The aim is to win as many games as we can and see where we will be at the end of the season. “We are ready for the season but we know it will not be plain sailing.”