The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FOR midfielder King Nadolo, joining an exclusive company of players who have played for all the three biggest teams in the country — Dynamos, Highlanders and CAPS United — without winning any trophy will be a vain undertaking. The 27-year-old player has completed a one-year loan switch to CAPS United to complete the circle of giants having already seen action with Bosso and DeMbare. And he has entered into that small company of players who have played for all the three traditional giants of Zimbabwean football. But Nadolo, who is joining CAPS United from parent club TelOne in the ZIFA Central Region Division One Soccer League, says he will be disappointed if he fails to win a major title with Makepekepe after enduring barren spells already at the other two giants. In fact, Nadolo never really exploded while at both Highlanders and Dynamos but there is no doubting his sheer talent. In fact, the diminutive player was one of the most outstanding players in the league in 2019 while playing for TelOne and despite failing to save them from relegation, Nadolo was judged good enough to take a place on the soccer stars calendar that year. He had already left Bosso and after the 2019 season, Nadolo was loaned to Dynamos where he spent three years without really knuckling down a regular place under Tonderai Ndiraya. And he is expecting to finally sparkle in a big team with the Green Machine also keen to see him at his best as they bid to win the league title this coming season. Marshal Machazane, Stewart “Shutto” Murisa, Valentine Ndaba, Stephen Alimenda, Rodrick Mutuma and Lovemore Ncube are some of the players who have previously seen action with all the three giants. While all but Ndaba have won the league title at least once, Nadolo knows he would be remembered as one of those who failed to win the league title with any of the three giants should he fail to nail the championship with Makepekepe this year. “CAPS United is a very big team and a massive brand too. They are one of the biggest teams in the country and I am happy to be part of them as we head into the new season,” said Nadolo. “Look, being one of the few players to play for all the traditional giants in the country is a dream come true for me. Truth be told, I was content after spending four or so seasons at Highlanders. When Dynamos signed me on loan from TelOne, the feeling was also amazing and now to be in CAPS United’s squad is an extraordinary feeling. “I should thank God while justifying why I should be one of the few players who have been in those tough trenches fighting for the cause of these biggest teams on the land. “I am determined to fight and win accolades with CAPS United. Obviously they have invested their faith in me and I will give my all for the cause. I have been at the team for a long time training and I should say, so far so good. Football is the same and I have been reunited with some of my old teammates like Godknows Murwira, who was the vice-captain during my time at Dynamos. “The team is strong and we need to tighten up and go for it. I am very happy here.” Nadolo joins an array of big name signings already made it at Makepekepe this pre-season. They include Murwira, Adrian Silla, Innocent Zambezi and Kelvin Madzongwe.