The Herald BOURNEMOUTH.  — AFC Bournemouth’s Zimbabwean defender Jordan Zemura insisted there is a mutual trust between the Cherries squad and head coach Gary O’Neil, stating: “As players, we are very with him and he’s very with us.” Cherries academy graduate Zemura enjoyed a breakthrough campaign at the Vitality Stadium last term, featuring 33 times and making the left-back spot his own as he helped his side win promotion back to the English Premier League football. The Zimbabwean international has further cemented his position as first-choice left-back whilst making the step-up to the top-flight, featuring in 19 of Cherries’ 26 league games so far this season. After a heart-breaking defeat in the dying embers of their last game against league leaders Arsenal, Cherries currently prop up the division, sitting at the bottom of the English Premier League. However, just six points separate Cherries from 15th placed Leicester City, meaning there are six teams threatened by relegation in the final 12 games of the campaign. Speaking in February, Zemura shared: “I think he’s a great guy, a great manager, and I think obviously it’s not easy. “Like he says to us, we’ve got to deal with the result. “And then we’ve just got to move on. Every time it’s a bad result, if it’s a good performance and a bad result, he doesn’t say dwell on it too much, that we deal with it afterwards. “So for him, I know things will start working out and I’m sure of it. “I think we’re working hard on the training ground, following his philosophy and his ethics. “As players, we are very with him and he’s very with us. “He backs us when it comes to the media. He’s always there putting himself on the line, even if it’s us that haven’t played that well. “So, you know, as players, we’ve got to keep on working hard with him and repay him, eventually.” Aside from the uncertainty of Cherries’ English Premier League status, there is speculation surrounding Zemura’s own future on the south coast. The defender is currently into the last three months of his contract at Cherries. Zemura’s housemate and fellow starlet Jaidon Anthony recently signed a new deal, putting further pressure on both Cherries and Zemura to finalise terms. Zemura told the Daily Echo: “Firstly, congratulations to Jaidon, buzzing for him. Hopefully something can get sorted.” Asked if he was focusing on his football, Zemura replied: “Yeah, definitely. “For me, I think the infatuation I have for the club is obviously seen. “Every game I come out and give my all and it’s something that, contracts, it’s not an easy thing. “It takes time to work out. “So I just got to leave it to my agents and leave it to the club to resolve.” — Daily Echo.