The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter GREENFUEL coach Lloyd “Samaita’’ Mutasa says his troops are in the league to write their own story and not to make up numbers after overhauling his squad in preparation for their debut Castle Lager Premier Soccer League dance. The newly-promoted Castle Lager Premiership football team has been going quietly with their business since they began their pre-season early this month and have signed at least 17 new players, including Ghanaians Gerald Arkson and Issaka Nyemewero. Mutasa, who has guided top-flight and Division One clubs, is confident that the team he is building in Chisumbanje would be a force to reckon with in the top-flight after roping in a number of players with experience at the top level. They have among their signings the ex-Highlanders duo of Bukhosi Sibanda and Kith Mavhunga, Collins Dhuwa and Xolisani Moyo from Manica Diamonds and former Warriors defenders Honest Moyo and Erick Chipeta. The new boys also raided struggling Bulawayo Chiefs and captured the signatures of David Bizabani and MacClive Phiri. Mutasa also reached out to the lower divisions where he signed Gamu Chikengezha from Mutare City and the Mambas duo of Nigel Matinha and Ashford Nyamajiwa. Mutasa once built successful projects with Kiglon and Dynamos. And he believes history will repeat itself with his latest project. “We are there not to make up numbers in the league but to write our own story in the league. We don’t want to put pressure on ourselves but we have really prepared,” said Mutasa. GreenFuel are expected to unveil their squad once they have finalised their signings. The club is currently camped at Rating, their sister company, and will move back to Chisumbanje where they will be playing matches at the GreenFuel Arena. The club has signed players from academies such as Legends Football Academy, and Aces Youth Academy as well as some Premierships clubs. GreenFuel have acquired the Legends Football Academy duo of wonderkid striker Washington Mapuwa and defender Tashinga Pfende on loan. Mapuwa turned 18 last week and was on loan at Whawha last year. He was part of the Legends Football Academy players who went on tour to Sporting Lisbon last year and is one of the brightest young talents in Zimbabwean football. Towering 22-year-old defender Pfende gave players like Dynamos’ Alex Orotomal and William Manondo of CAPS United a torrid time last season when their teams played Tenax. “We have a mixture of youth and experience. We have youths eager to make names for themselves, so we have a balance. We have looked all over the country in search of players and had scouts in areas like Hwange, Bulawayo and Gweru. Our team will have players from all over the country. We have both new unknown players and a few experienced players in a close 50-50 composition,” said Mutasa. GreenFuel have retained former DeMbare skipper Obey Mwerahari and Chris Mverechena, who were among the senior players that helped the team gain promotion from the Eastern Region Division One. The club has also roped in former Highlanders assistant coach Bhekithemba Ndlovu into the technical team and will assist Mutasa this season. “The leaders have their own targets and the coaches and players, we have our own targets,” said Mutasa. “Players don’t want to be associated with relegation in the league. Some of them are new players. We also have experience within our ranks. “We are saying because of that mixture, we are ready to roll. We would want to give our fans something to cheer about.” Turning to the other teams in the league Mutasa said this season promises to be competitive. “On paper, Manica Diamonds have gone miles to build their team, they got Brett (Amidu), Kawondera (Ralph), Panashe (Mutasa), Donald Ngoma and Bello (Gift) from Triangle. They have a strong team. “Herentals, there is an element of continuity in their team which also makes them strong and a force to reckon with,” he said. Mutasa added that fellow newcomers Simba Bhora have also been active and have acquired experienced players. “FC Platinum, Ngezi Platinum and Chicken Inn are also stable teams. Dynamos and CAPS United are up there as well. So it might be seven or eight teams who are competitive,” said Mutasa. Green Fuel’s new signings: Honest Moyo (South Africa), Eric Chipeta (South Africa), Keith Mavunga, Bukhosi Sibanda (Highlanders), Collins Dhuwa, Xolisani Moyo (Manica Diamonds), David Bizabani, MacClive Phiri (Bulawayo Chiefs), Nqobile Ndlovu (Bulawayo City), Gerald Arkson, Issaka Nyemewero (Ghana), Pascal Shumbaimwe, Aristotle Manyamba (Tenax), Arnold Munkuli (ZPC Kariba), Gamu Chikengezha (Mutare City), Nigel Matinha, Ashford Nyamajiwa (Black Mambas)