The Herald LONDON. — Mikel Arteta has warned football “players will decide where they want to play’’ as Arsenal pursue a January deal for Mykhailo Mudryk. The English Premier League leaders have made the Shakhtar Donetsk star their top target this month as Arteta seeks enforcements to bolster his side’s title charge. Mudryk has reportedly agreed a five-year deal to join the Gunners with the winger making no secret of his desire to join the north London club. While Chelsea have also entered the fray, his preference remains to join Arsenal despite Shakhtar director Darijo Srna meeting with officials from Stamford Bridge last week. Arsenal saw an opening offer worth £35.5m up front plus a further £17.7m in add-ons rejected by the Ukrainian club earlier this month. They are thought to have returned with a second offer but one that still falls significantly short of Shakhtar’s valuation which is in the region of the £85m. Arteta has remained silent on Arsenal’s transfer activity this month but amid suggestions Mudryk is ready and waiting to complete the move, he insists players will ultimately always get the move they want. “No updates,’’ Arteta said at a press conference on Saturday, when asked for the latest on Mudryk. Asked whether there is value in the market amid Shakhtar’s huge demands for Mudryk, he added: “Valuations have to be made between the selling club and the buying club, and it is difficult but it shows there are a lot of clubs with a lot of financial power to spend big amounts, and we have to compete with them. “To be smart, we have to see good opportunities and we have to be attractive for players. At the end of the day, players decide where they want to play, and if they want to play for our club, that is great.’’ A Ukraine-based agent has criticised Shakhtar Donetsk for their valuation of Arsenal target Mudryk. “Minimal. Shakhtar won’t let Mudryk go for the money they are currently offering. €100m is an inadequate price,” Kryvenko told Footboom. “A player from the Ukrainian championship cannot cost more than, for example, a player from the Netherlands. You have to look at things realistically. There is a market value, and Shakhtar seem to be taking figures from the ceiling. “The guy is in the ‘golden cage’. I know for sure that in the summer, Brentford offered good money for Mudryk, but the Donetsk team refused. It seems as if they want to reflect on their talent everything that they lost in the past failed transfers.” Mudryk is set to join up with his Shakhtar teammates at a training camp as they prepare for the resumption of the Ukrainian top flight. Back at Arsenal, Arteta is hopeful of bolstering his options with the return of Emile Smith Rowe. The attacking midfielder has not played since September after suffering a groin injury which required surgery but having returned to training, could be in contention to return in the FA Cup tie against Oxford tonight. — Metro.