The Herald SAN DIEGO. — World No. 3 and US Open golf winner Jon Rahm was left in awe of Gareth Bale’s golf ability after he played nine holes with the Welsh star at Torrey Pines on Tuesday. The former Wales, Real Madrid and Tottenham star, who announced his retirement from football earlier this month, will be participating in the upcoming AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am in February alongside other celebrities and some of the world’s top golfers. Ahead of the tournament in California, Bale was getting some practice in by joining the Spanish star — who has won both of his last two PGA Tour events — ahead of the Farmers Insurance Open in San Diego. The 28-year-old Spaniard is one of the favourites to win the event on the same course where he captured his sole major title at the 2021 US Open. Although, Rahm seems relaxed in the build up and played with Bale in a pre-tournament Pro-Am on Tuesday. He was full of praise for his partner.  “I told Gareth you just can’t be so good at professional football and golf at the same time, it just doesn’t seem fair,’’ Rahm told Spanish news outlet Marca. ‘’You can’t be dedicated to one thing and still have this much talent for golf, it’s not fair in the slightest. But he’s looking to retire soon and he loves this sport and he loves golf. “He really wants to play a little bit more and hopefully in the future I’ll see him more times in the Pro-Am.’’ Rahm was obviously unaware that Bale has already hung up his boots, but revealed that he didn’t even need to ask for any tips or advice out on the course. “He didn’t ask for anything, and nor should he be asking he’s good enough,’’ answered Rahm.  “Like I said he has no business being that good when he’s a professional football player. The second he’s done and he can practice a lot more he’s gonna get a lot better. ‘’He got two strokes, which I think is already wrong. He should be giving strokes back to the rest of the amateurs because he’s already a very, very good player.’’ There will be 156 amateurs participating at Pebble Beach from February 2-5 and the same number of professionals, including US Open champion Matt Fitzpatrick and world number five Patrick Cantlay. Other celebrities listed to play include actor Bill Murray and Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers. — Mailonline.