The Herald Tadious Manyepo–Sports Reporter DARLINGTON Dodo has hailed the Choto tournament organisers for their inclusivity. The ZPC Kariba coach was the top guest during the latest edition of the Choto tournament series at Chibuku Stadium in Chitungwiza on New Year’s Day. The community football series, which started in August last year has since incorporated netball. Wedza’s flagship team Sango United, Chitungwiza and Chinhoyi Select clashed at Chibuku Stadium with a total of US$4 000 at stake. And Dodo was impressed with the way the series are running.“I think this is one of the most organised sport tournaments in the country. “You look at football. The series have seen community clubs from across the country participating and in the process getting opportunities for exposure to scouting,” said Dodo “The marginalised players are also talented just like those who have the exposure. “There are a lot of raw gems who often go to waste in the marginalised areas. “It’s refreshing to see someone getting out of their way to give a chance to those downtrodden youngsters to express themselves. “This is what our game needs at the moment. We need more tournaments like these. “It’s also good to see netball being part of the series as part of empowering women.” Chitungwiza emerged the champions in football after registering identical 2-0 wins over Sango United and Chinhoyi Select. Nineteen year old Tadiwanashe Mhinyu who has been a sensation in these series for Chitungwiza has since been signed by ZPC Kariba and he can’t wait for the start of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season. “I would like to salute the organiser of the tournament, Brighton Choto and sponsors BG Sniper Transport for affording us a chance to showcase our talent.“I am one of the first beneficiaries of this running tournament. “I am looking forward to playing in the top-flight and I know it’s a massive opportunity for me,” said Mhinyu. “I know a lot of players are talented enough and they will soon be getting professional contracts from different teams. “Growing up, I have always loved playing football but I never thought I would have a chance to get the exposure that would see me being signed by a big club like ZPC Kariba.“But I got this opportunity and I am grateful.” Organiser of the tournament Choto said he paid tribute to the sponsors. “I would like to thank BG Sniper Transport for their continued support of our tournaments.“Our aim is to give an opportunity to the marginalized communities to showcase their sporting talent,” he said. “We will take the series to Wedza at the end of this month, Chinhoyi, Mhakwe, Murambinda and all other areas.“We are happy to see some of the players who have taken part in this tournament getting an opportunity to be signed by big clubs. That is our aim at the end of the day”. Some players including Washington Tauzeni and Jamal Kuvarega both of Chinhoyi as well as Sango United’s Magadzire Choto, Thomas Machaka and Stanley Madanhi have all caught the interest of several clubs.