The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S Tendekai Musabaeka was the first local tennis player to book his place in the semi-finals of the ongoing ITF/CAT Southern African Regional Championships when he emerged victorious against Botswana’s Martin Seetso yesterday at Harare Sports Club. Musabaeka, competing in the 14-and-Under Boys, dismissed Seetso 6-0, 6-2. The Zimbabwean had earlier on beat Jesse Napoke of Madagascar 6-3, 6-1. “All my matches have been tough… they weren’t easy but through hard work it paid off. “I played my quarter-finals today against Martin Seetso from Botswana… First set it was like a warm-up, then the second set he started picking up and it became more and more difficult. “Playing at this level it means a lot. I am hoping to get a scholarship and some sponsorship so that I can play more tournaments and become a better player. “I am expecting to win my semi-final and progress to the finals,” said Musabaeka. The regional championships, also serving as a qualifier for the African Junior Championships, got underway on Saturday and are running until Sunday. The organisers will be hoping for better weather conditions during the week as the first two days were characterised by disruptions due to the rains and some of the matches were also delayed because of Malawi’s late arrival. Other Zimbabwean players in the 14-and-Under that were still in the runnning for a place in the semi-finals yesterday included Bradley Nyamunokora, who was scheduled to take on Hlumani Kekana of South Africa in the quarter-finals. Nyamunokora overpowered Marcus Semane from Botswana in the second round 6-1, 6-7(5), 7-5. In the girls section, Akeelah Khanye won her first match 6-0, 6-0 against Mercy Mwebe of Malawi and was excited to have pulled through to the second round. “It was actually not that hard and it feels great, I feel proud of myself. My target is to make it to the Africa Junior Championships,” said Khanye. Chanelle Zhuwakini also had a good start in her opening match when she defeated Mozambique’s Leticia Zandamela 6-1, 6-0 while Tawananyasha Musiyiwa outclassed Amantle Mngadi of Eswatini 6-0, 6-0. Simphiwe Malunguza beat Maya Ewadaba from Mozambique 6-1, 6-0. In the 16-and-Under Boys, Ronan Mtisi pulled through to the quarter-finals when dismissing fellow Zimbabwean Morgan Mkwanila 6-0, 6-0. In the 16-and-Under Girls, Tinotenda Chipfakacha also sailed through to the quarter-finals following her 6-0, 6-0 victory over Reese Desaubin of Mauritius. Zahara El-Zein had also booked her place in the last eight after dismissing Namibia’s Zoe Bronkorst 6-0, 6-0. One of the coaches in charge of Team Zimbabwe, Martin Dzuwa, said having most of their players winning the first round was encouraging despite some of them bowing out in the second round. “I think we did well. I think yesterday (Saturday) we only had one first round casualty. From 24 players, we only had one who lost, then we had 23 in the second round so I think that is showing that these kids are playing well. With more tournaments they will be able to go far. “So day two today, yes it’s been a tough day for us. I think we have some matches that other players have lost. But the numbers we still have some guys who have gone through to the quarter-finals,” said Dzuwa. Some of the matches were scheduled for late yesterday and Dzuwa was hopeful they will have more players making it through to the quarter-finals and semi-finals.