The Herald Herald Reporter CCC vice chairman Job Sikhala has yet again exposed his political allies this time revealing that his self-appointed lawyer and family spokesperson Mr Freddy Masarirevu is cooking tall tales to shore up his image. This emerged yesterday when the Commissioner-General of the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services Moses Chihobvu visited inmates at Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison where Sikhala is currently remanded facing a battery of criminal charges. Offenders at Chikurubi Maximum Prison including mental inmates at Chikurubi Psychiatric Unit expressed their gratitude following the visit by the Commissioner-General and took the opportunity to air their concerns regarding their welfare. It was during the interactions that Sikhala dropped the bombshell, just a few days after yet another. Sources said Sikhala told Commissioner-General Chihobvu that some of the statements being issued by Mr Masarirevu soon after every prison visit have nothing to do with him, but his own effort at self-promotion. The sources said Sikhala was particularly incensed by Mr Masarirevu’s attempts to water down his letter in which he revealed attempts by his party colleagues to eliminate him. This was after the self-appointed Sikhala family spokesperson vainly tried to deflect the contents of the letter from the main target, CCC leaders, who have been regulars at Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison. All this came to light during the visit by Comm-Gen Chihobvu, who was openly interacting with offenders and Correctional Officers at the institution with a view to getting first hand information regarding the welfare of offenders housed there. The routine visit is the first of its kind and is envisaged to spread to other prisons countrywide. The whole idea behind incarceration is premised on ensuring offender rehabilitation. Correctional facilities are not institutions where offenders are to be punished. It is the sentence imposed upon offenders that constitutes punishment.