The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent Swedish-based musician and cultural ambassador Makandire Chezhira Chikutu has high hopes that the continued opening of art spaces after a devastating shutdown by Covid-19 will this year see him resume his work of spreading Zimbabwean culture to different countries across the globe. ManLuckerz, as Chikutu is affectionately known in art circles, holds various workshops in schools, universities and art institutions as well as participating in festivals spreading Zimbabwean traditional music. Since Covid-19 struck in 2019, he, like many other art practitioners has not been able to do fully-fledged programmes, including his flagship ZimFebi International Music Festival which is usually held in Uppsala, Sweden. ManLuckerz said he planned to do more this year. “Since Covid-19, it has been hard to do most of our usual programmes and push for their protracted growth,” he said. “The pandemic destroyed our plans as a cultural sector, but nevertheless I believe we will bounce back with the support of our stakeholders.” The “Rongeka” hitmaker said the rejuvenation of economies allows for a growth in the cultural sector. “Though the pandemic may have weakened last year most economies were struggling, some still are, but at least we are on a recovery path, which means more money can now be invested in the arts and culture sector,” he said. “In crisis, these sectors, though very important, are often neglected as health, education and other sectors are given priority status.” The pandemic, however, did not completely cripple ManLuckerz’s operations as he migrated most of his shows and activities online before slowly reintroducing live performances last year. He went on to release his sixth studio album titled “Rongeka” in March 2022. “This year we are targeting to spread our culture and heritage while also teaching our children on the importance of tradition and inspiring them to preserve culture,” said ManLuckerz. “If we work together as players in the sector partnering with different stakeholders, we will be able to do a lot. “That’s why we will also focus on formulating strategic partnerships to expand our reach.” ManLuckerz has made meaningful investments in spreading local tradition, including writing a cultural book “Flashback Identity”.