The Herald Ivan Zhakata Herald Correspondent PALESTINE has condemned Israeli’s shoot-to-kill policy under the instructions of military commanders and political leaders. In a statement, the Embassy of the State of Palestine in Harare said the Israeli forces have turned into mere machines to kill Palestinians. Ambassador of the State of Palestine to Zimbabwe, Mr Tamer Almassri said Israeli occupation forces to kill a Palestinian citizen almost every day since the start of the year 2023 in addition to home demolitions, dispossession of families, campaigns of incitement and calls for ethnic cleansing. “This should be condemned and the perpetrators of these crimes should be brought to justice,” Ambassador Almassri said. “These latest crimes are a result of the apartheid state of Israel’s failure to integrate its imported citizens from over 120 nations which have caused racism and competition to adopt the culture of aggression, religious extremism, and violence against the Palestinian people. “Similarly, we condemn the actions of Jewish Supremacist Israeli Minister of National Security, Itamar Ben-Gvir who openly calls himself fascist and laments that Ben Gurion “did not finish the job” of extermination of Palestinians during the Nakba. This jeopardized the two-state solution, furthering instability in the region and the world.” Ambassador Almassri said the agenda of the Israeli government represented an existential threat to the Palestinian people. “As we can clearly see in its literal translation into actions on the ground, including raiding the Al-Aqsa Mosque Compound, and allowing settlers to attack Muslim and Christian sites and Palestinian civilians,” he said. “The international community’s silence towards the crimes committed against the Palestinian people encourages Israel to continue to implement its colonial agendas which undermine any opportunity to achieve peace and end its occupation and colonization of the land of the State of Palestine. “We call on the international community and especially the United States to compel the occupying regime to comply with international resolutions,” he said.