The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter LOCAL tennis players to compete in the ITF/CAT Southern African Junior Championships starting today at Harare Sports Club are confident they will rise to the occasion. The championships, catering for the Under-14 and Under-16 players, feature individual and team competition. The competition begins today with the individual event which will run until January 10 and the team competition takes place from January 11 to 15. About 117 players from 11 countries — Angola, Botswana, Eswatini, South Africa, Lesotho, Mozambique, Madagascar, Mauritius, Namibia, Malawi and hosts Zimbabwe – are expected to take part. Some of the players that spoke to The Herald yesterday expressed confidence ahead of the competition. Bradley Nyamunokora, who will compete in the Under-14 boys, said competing at this level is important for his game. “It feels good to be joining the Under-14 team. It’s an honour. It just shows that I am working hard and I am playing some good tennis. “As a player, you always want to reach the final. I always want to play good to make my coaches proud, my parents proud and also it helps develop my career, like in the ITF and CAT rankings,” said Nyamunokora. Under-16 girls team member Zahara El-Zein is positive they will pull through. “It’s really important (to compete in the championships) because I think it’s really important to be playing for your country and also to represent yourself out there. And I think with my team we will be able to carry the Zimbabwean flag high.” The regional tournament is serving as a qualifying event for the African Junior Championships. Having competed at this level before, El-Zein believes she is better prepared this time around. “I honestly think that the experience will help and I think that we can take on most, even all of these countries. We just need to focus and put our minds to it but I really do think we will be able to accomplish our goal. “For the first tournament I plan to at least reach the semi-finals or finals to be able to at least get something to represent my country. And for the team event, I also think that we will be able to pull through because we have quite a strong team,” said El-Zein. Development officer for Southern Africa ITF, Tapiwa Masunga, said they are looking forward to a competitive event. “This is Southern African Junior Championships. It is a regional event for SADC nations. We have 11 nations that are taking part in this year’s event. Angola, Botswana, Eswatini, South Africa, Lesotho, Zimbabwe Mozambique, Madagascar, Mauritius, as well as Namibia are taking part in this event. We have 117 players as well as 21 coaches so far. “Well the Southern African zone is actually the biggest zone in Africa with 11 nations and usually the competition is very tough for Southern Africa compared to other zones. The next toughest zone is probably North Africa. “But it’s going to be probably very tough… a lot of these players, some of them play on the ITF circuit. We have some players here from Madagascar that are ranked very highly in the ITF junior rankings for their age 15 or so… So we have quite good players that are here for this competition,” said Masunga. Zimbabwe will also host the Southern Region Zonal Presidents meeting on January 15. Tennis Zimbabwe president, Biggie Magarira, said hosting the two events is important for the local game. “The hosting of the two events is aligned to our strategic plan which will direct our operations for the next two years. Our new vision is to make Zimbabwe ‘A World Class Tennis Nation.’ “We believe we have what it takes to produce world class tennis players, develop world class tennis coaches and officials, build world class tennis facilities, host world class tennis events and make tennis a national sport,” said Magarira. Team Zimbabwe Under-16 Boys Ronan Mtisi, Makanaka Whata, Thabani Nhokwara, Tafara Nhokwara, Tatenda Chivengah, Morgan Morgan Mkwanila. Under-16 Girls Zahara El-Zein, Ruvarashe Magarira, Tinotenda Chipfakacha, Kupakwashe Kanyore, Tendai Makunike, Thandiwe Nkala. Under-14 Boys Tendekai Musabaeka, Kudiwa Matambo, Noah Samushonga, Myles Murindagomo, Isaac Nyoni, Bradley Nyamunokora. Under-14 Girls Chanelle Zhuwakini, Simphiwe Malunguza, Tatenda Chingonzo, Tawananyasha Musiyiwa, Emmily George, Akeelah Khanye.