The Herald NEWCASTLE. — Newcastle boss Eddie Howe said “you couldn’t script it” as Dan Burn’s first goal for his boyhood club sent the Magpies on their way to the Carabao Cup semi-final with a 2-0 victory over Leicester City on Tuesday night. The Magpies, who sit third in the English Premier League and are hunting a first trophy in more than 50 years, did not let a fervent and expectant St James’ Park down. They wasted a host of chances before 6ft 6in defender Burn ran on to Joelinton’s pass, beat two defenders and slotted a shot into the bottom corner. “Incredible moment for Dan Burn. I am so pleased for him,” said Howe. “This is his club and he has come back here and he is savouring every moment.” Burn, who joined Newcastle from Brighton last year, said: “I used to sit in the east stand. You always want to score in front of the Gallowgate end. To do that in front of my family was amazing. “I like to get forward and it’s entertaining watching a guy my size running into the box.” The scoring was not finished, however, as Joelinton coolly netted from Miguel Almiron’s incisive pass to wrap up the victory. A 5-0 win would not have flattered the Magpies, with Joelinton hitting the post and Sean Longstaff missing several chances. Substitute Jamie Vardy missed two glorious chances to get Leicester back into the game but their performance merited nothing. It was another miserable night for Brendan Rodgers’ side, who have only beaten MK Dons and Gillingham since the break in their season in November. Howe, backed by the club’s rich Saudi owners, has got a new generation of Newcastle fans dreaming of title and trophy challenges. The last time they reached a final was in the 1999 FA Cup. Their last trophy was the 1969 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup. You have to go back to 1955 for their last domestic success, the FA Cup. They have only reached the League Cup final once, losing in 1976. Since then Oxford United and Luton Town are among the teams to have lifted this trophy. Howe’s side — who were back to full strength after the weekend’s FA Cup loss to Sheffield Wednesday — were wonderful from the off. — BBC Sport.