The Herald LONDON. — Mikel Arteta marvelled at an “extraordinary” first half of the season from his Arsenal team but warned that they are still short of the level set by Manchester City, despite sitting five points clear at the top of the league with a game in hand. Arteta insists Manchester City remain the team to beat in the English Premier League football title race despite Arsenal’s dramatic 3-2 last-gasp win over Manchester United on Sunday. Eddie Nketiah’s 90th minute effort secured a euphoric win over Erik ten Hag’s improving side to maintain their five-point lead over champions Manchester City, who beat Wolves 3-0 earlier in the day. But Arteta — who has been at pains not to acknowledge Arsenal’s position as title favourites — is adamant Pep Guardiola’s team, who have won four of the previous five championships, remain a cut above his side. “I know my team so well. I know where we are, I know why we are here and I know where we want to be and we are far from that,’’ explained the Spaniard. Arteta did admit, however, that belief and confidence is growing within his squad after this huge three points against a team that would have moved to within five points of them with victory. “I hope they believe, not that they (believe they) are champions, but they are good enough to play against these teams and that they have done it,’’ said Arteta. “We talked about that in the last two or three days. We know our reality, we know still how much we have to improve. “We know what’s taken us to the position we are today and we have to reinforce that every day. “(Wins like this gives us) Belief and confidence that we are going in the right direction. That the way we’re playing is going to reward them. “It’s just pure spirit, pure belief and testament to what we do. In my opinion that’s what we have to continue.’’ On the manner of the victory, Arteta added: “I don’t think it gets better much than that. It was a beautiful moment, a really special one because we were pushing and pushing and pushing and it wasn’t coming.’’ Arteta continued to evade the suggestion Arsenal are firm favourites to win the league and cited Manchester City’s relentlessness of the past half decade. “I don’t have an opinion,” he said. “It can be a perception. I know my team so well, I know where we are, I know why we are here and I know where we want to be and we are far from that. I know the levels of the other teams and one especially that has won in the last five or six years (Manchester City) and we are not there yet.” Arteta was delighted with Nketiah, who also equalised Marcus Rashford’s first-half strike in Arsenal’s 3-2 win and continues to make light of Gabriel Jesus’s injury-enforced absence. “What Eddie is doing is incredible,” he said. “We cannot say we saw that (coming). It is a big blow losing Gabi but Eddie is responding with the team in an exceptional way.” Arteta also shared his verdict on Leandro Trossard’s debut following Arsenal’s win over Manchester United and all-but confirmed the Gunners’ January deal for Poland international centre-back Jakub Kiwior. Arsenal have made just one signing in the January transfer window so far, bringing in Brighton’s versatile attacker Trossard in a £27m deal — who came off the bench against United and played the last eight minutes of normal time. The north London club were also expected to announce a deal for Polish defender Kiwior from Italian side Spezia yesterday. Arteta all-but confirmed the transfer when he was quizzed about the player watching on from the stands — with Geoff Shreeves asking how important January signings had been — and Arteta confirming that ‘’they are going to help us’’. “Just in terms of numbers, we had 15 or 16 outfield players (before signing Trossard and Kiwior) and it wasn’t enough,’’ the Spaniard told Sky Sports. “They are going to help us. You saw Trossard is composed and confident already.’’ Arteta brushed off the yellow card he received during the match — admitting he “can’t complain’’ — and admitted he was “emotional’’ following a massive win for his side. “Emotional, a lot of passion, a lot of quality,’’ he added. ‘’It doesn’t get much better than that. — The Guardian