The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE Mashonaland Turf Club have congratulated Zimbabwe’s female jockey O’Meara Rusike for winning the inaugural OKAPI Ladies International race at the horse racing spectacle L’Ormarins King’s Plate in Cape Town, South Africa, at the weekend. MTC is the country’s horse racing motherbody and will resume races with the Hachiman Sprint on January 14. Rusike started her racing career back home in Zimbabwe where she joined the Zimbabwe Jockey Academy and is now a work rider in the United Kingdom. Speaking after Rusike’s victory in Cape Town at the weekend, the MTC racing executive, Betina Gurajena, said they are glad that the O’Meara’s riding career is taking a positive turn. “We are very glad for Rusike for winning the inaugural OKAPI Ladies International race, formerly Queen’s Plate. Rusike did well and as MTC we are glad that she has done so well and we wish her all the best in her new journey as a work rider. “Rusike has always been passionate about racing and taking part in such races is good for her and we hope she will get far. There are a lot of good jockeys in the country and we are hopeful that they will continue to do well and raise the country’s flag high,” said Gurajena. Racing will resume in the country with two races set for this month, starting with the Hachiman Sprint to be held on January 14 and another race set for January 27. Last year the race was won by Citrusdal who beat Emerald Floe. Citrusdal and Emerald Floe fought out the finish of the 1100m Hachiman Sprint at Borrowdale Park, with the former gaining the upper hand by a quarter of a length. The 1800m race last year saw Duke Of Marmalade gelding’s Citrusdal recording his sixth victory, despite most of his successes have been achieved over more ground. Keanen Steyn was in the irons, and Citrusdal is trained by Bridget Stidolph, and was bred by Drakenstein Stud. “We have a lot of events lined up for this year and we are grateful that the race course is in perfect condition after it underwent refurbishments last year,” said Gurajena.