The Herald LONDON. — Lionel Messi’s future has been thrown into uncertainty after he experienced a “change of mentality” about his future, reports suggest. This has been sparked after Messi’s Argentina lifted the FIFA World Cup trophy in Qatar last month — with Messi also picking up the gong for Player of the Tournament. Earlier this month, it was reported that Messi had reached a verbal agreement to extend his stay with Paris Saint-Germain. The 35-year-old’s contract with the French Ligue 1 outfit ends in the summer, but any speculation was set to be put to rest with him agreeing to stay on. However, according to Spanish journalist Gerard Romero, Messi has rejected the French champions offer. Speaking on Twitch — a platform used by a number of sports stars including Sergio Aguero and a host of Formula One stars – he revealed Messi’s decision and the reasoning for it. He said: “Leo Messi’s intention is not to extend his contract with PSG and, therefore, not to renew his deal with the Paris-based side. “The victory in the World Cup in Qatar has changed his way of thinking, as he values other things for the immediate future.” Winning the Jules Rimet was the final trophy Messi was yet to win, having already tasted glory in International Football with the Copa America the year before along with his glittering club career. And now it appears Messi will value other factors more than the sporting factor alone, as the Champions League and more league titles in France would not motivate him enough, Marca suggest. The outlet suggests a number of teams outside of Europe are interested in his signature. These include David Beckham’s Inter Miami, the rivals of Cristiano Ronaldo’s new side Al-Halil and Newell’s Old Boys — the club where it all began for Messi. However, a return to Argentina is unlikely to occur unless Messi dramatically drops his wage demands — a factor which is also likely to leave ex-club Barcelona out of the running due to their own financial difficulties. This leaves Miami and Al-Halil as the two realistic options for Messi away from PSG, though the Middle East outfit could finance a deal worth a whopping £306million-a-year. Such a deal would blow Ronaldo’s own record-breaking deal at Al-Nassr out of the water by £133m difference. Messi actually competed and scored against the Saudi side in an exhibition match as PSG faced off against an All-star team containing players from Al-Halil and Al-Nassr. — The Sun.