The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter KUDAKWASHE “Take Money” Chiwandire has her eyes firmly fixed on the ball. And the World Boxing Council (WBC) super-bantamweight interim champion’s camp is leaving nothing to chance. The 27-year-old is heading for the biggest fight by a Zimbabwean boxer ever when she challenges for the WBC world championship in March. She will face Mexican title holder Yamileth Mecardo in Mexico in March. She has already begun gym sessions with ring-craft scheduled to start soon as the talented pugilist gears for the bout. Her promoters, Delta Force Academy, are running around to put things in place and create an ideal environment for the preparations. Chiwandire currently doesn’t have any sponsors and Delta Force Academy have extended a begging bowl as the camp knuckle down on solid preparations. Academy director Clyde Musonda, who also doubles as Chiwandire’s coach, said his stable needs around US$14 000 for the preparations to be smooth. “We are looking at something like US$14 000 which we have to invest into preparations for our upcoming fight,” said Musonda. “At the moment, we don’t have any corporate partners who can help us meet some of the expenses associated with our training. “The training in itself is very hectic while at the same time the financial burden is also huge. “It is in this vein that we are appealing to the corporate world and individuals to bail us out. “The aim is to do well when we go to Mexico. We want to do well for our country and defend the badge”. Musonda said Chiwandire will have to go to Zambia and South Africa for some sparring sessions as part of her preparations for the big fight. “We are trying to tick all the boxes. We can’t afford to leave some areas unattended given the size of the fight we are entering. “We have to be thorough if we are to stand any chance of scoring success in this upcoming fight. “We are fighting a champion who has defended the belt more than once. She is one of the best female fighters in the world and we should be strategic. “It all begins with good preparation, this is where the fight is won or lost. “Firstly, we would like to condition the boxer. We will then engage renowned boxers in South Africa and Zambia. “We will visit these two countries for further training and sparring sessions. We believe that will help us attain the shape we need to take into the fight against Mercado. “We also need to get Chiwandire into camp as soon as possible”. Chiwandire qualified to challenge for the gold belt, courtesy of her successful defence of the interim title. Interestingly, the Zimbabwean beat another Mexican Zulina Munoz to retain the belt which she first won in Lusaka, Zambia, against her host Catherine Phiri in February last year. That Chiwandire beat Munoz in the presents of some Mexicans means Mercado may as well be aware, at least in terms of appreciation, on how the Mbare-born boxer fights. Chiwandire will be gunning to become the first Zimbabwean boxer to win a WBC gold belt.