The Herald George Maponga Masvingo Bureau Masvingo residents have praised the police for its swift reaction that resulted in the arrest of suspected armed robber, who last weekend allegedly shot and killed a prominent tuckshop owner in the town, before disappearing. The suspect Tafadzwa Kanengoni (31) of Aphiri suburb in Mucheke, was arrested yesterday morning, at his girlfriend’s house in the Kandodo area of Zvishavane, Midlands Province. He was then taken to Masvingo straightaway for searches. Kanengoni is an ex-convict who was on the police wanted list for others case of armed robbery and unlawful entry. Detectives from Masvingo were pursuing after he allegedly murdered Michael Munhungowarwa, a popular Mucheke tuckshop owner as he tried to rob him. Munhungowarwa was commonly known as Mukoma Mike. Residents of Mucheke were early yesterday morning awoken by the sound of gunfire that started around 2am, as police officers were forced to shoot at Kanengoni who tried to flee while handcuffed during an exercise to recover some of the goods he had stolen. Masvingo provincial police spokesperson Inspector Kudakwashe Dhewa said Kanengoni was shot on the leg as he tried to outrun detectives despite being handcuffed. A lot of Mucheke residents thronged the late Munhungowarwa’s tuckshop as police took Kanengoni for indications. Insp Dhewa said police recovered a laptop, pistol, clothing items and memory sticks from the suspect. Kanengoni is expected to appear in court today. Yesterday, he was taken to hospital under heavy police armed guard to have his wound dressed. Said Insp Dhewa: “The suspect will appear in court tomorrow (today) and he is being linked to four cases namely; two cases armed robbery, one case of murder and another case of unlawful entry when he stole the pistol he was using from a city businessman.” Masvingo residents hailed police for a sterling job in trekking down and arresting Kanengoni as the city was now living in fear after the cold-blooded murder of Munhungowarwa as he was about to close tuckshop last Saturday night. Mr Tatenda Shuro of Rujeko A suburb said: “We are happy with the good work that our police are doing and the arrest of this notorious armed robber who is also an ex-convict shows that our police means business. “Barely a week after he committed the offence the suspect has been arrested. We are grateful to our police.’’ Mr Blessing Makwinye of Sisk suburb said residents were living in fear of killers following the incident. “Memories of the brutal killing of Munhungowarwa were still fresh in our minds. Mike was a hardworking and quiet guy who started very small and was on the rise, only for his life to be cut short. However, we are happy that at least the police have arrested the culprit and he must face justice and rot in jail.’’ Those who grew up with Kanengoni said he was a quiet and an unassuming boy. They said they were surprised when he was linked with a spate of crimes leading to his incarceration in the past, and the present murder allegations.