The Herald Mukudzei Chingwere-Herald Reporter CHITUNGWIZA Central Hospital has made a huge leap in medical service provision by introducing specialist neurosurgery following the recruitment of a neurosurgeon. The addition of this speciality gives the hospital most of the medical specialist services expected of a central hospital. The introduction of neuro-surgical services is in sync with Government’s thrust on universal health coverage as espoused by President Mnangagwa. It will also lessen the burden on other central hospitals, particularly Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals and Sally Mugabe Central Hospital, which were taking neuro-surgical referrals from Mashonaland East province. In an interview with The Herald, the hospital’s Chief Medical Officer, Dr Michael Chiwanga, said the hospital had already had its first successful procedure. “We are pleased to advise our stakeholders that we are now offering neuro-surgical services at Chitungwiza Central Hospital,” said Dr Chiwanga. “We have already done a successful procedure on a patient who is now recovering. The patient had suffered injuries from a road traffic accident which needed the services of a neurosurgeon. “It must be noted that this is no ordinary specialist service and for Government to accord us this honour is quite commendable. As a central hospital, you don’t want to be shunting your patients to the next institution up the ladder, so when we get this kind of service it gives us comfort to address our patient’s needs. “In line with our parent ministry’s universal health coverage thrust, our target here is to be able to cater for all the needs of our patients and we are very pleased with the support we are getting from Government”. As part of its health strategy, Government is targeting to revolutionise the health services to a standard commensurate with an upper middle income economy. Steady progress has been registered since the advent of the Second Republic which has seen a concerted effort to re-equip,  improve staffing levels and train medical personnel at health centres. The overall goal is to afford Zimbabweans healthcare of sufficient quality and halt outbound medical tourism. Meanwhile, residents of Rugare suburb in Harare have applauded the Government for a newly constructed hospital which is set to offer healthcare services in the neighbourhood. The suburb did not have any health facilities and residents would visit Sally Mugabe Hospital in Southerton or Kambuzuma Polyclinic for treatment. The hospital, which is set to open its doors next month, was constructed by Health Ambassadors for Economic Development (HEAR4ED) as a way of complementing Government’s efforts in boosting the health sector in the country. Scores of people recently received free medical services at the soon-to-be-opened hospital offered by the HEAR4ED at the hospital much to their happiness. The free health outreach programme offered services such as doctor consultations, treatment, medication, baby weighing and counselling to residents. Formerly known as the Zimbabwe Nurses Association, the group is on a drive to complement Government’s health delivery programmes. Local residents said they were happy that they no longer had to travel long distances to access medical services. Mr Moffat Dube, a senior citizen and resident of Rugare, said: “As a pensioner and old man, I no longer have the capability to pay for medical services. “I would like to thank this organisation for bringing such services to us. We are also happy that we will no longer have to travel long distances to receive treatment”. HEAR4ED chairperson Mr Tafadzwa Jackson, who is also the Zanu PF shadow councillor for Ward 13, said the hospital will go a long way in helping the residents of Rugare. “We will continue to support President Mnangagwa towards achieving the goals of NDS1 (National Development Strategy 1) through the provision of free testing, treatment, medication, family planning and baby weighing, among other health services. “We will ensure that no one will be left behind. “The programme will also target those in rural areas to ensure the services are equally distributed across the country.” The outreach programme saw more than 30 medical practitioners including doctors, nurses, paramedics and counsellors providing their services for free. HEAR4ED national coordinator, Mr Felix Muzondo, said they required support from well-wishers to ensure they were adequately equipped. “This organisation is for patriotic health practitioners. We are those nurses and doctors who vowed not to let fellow citizens die when our colleagues were striking. “We continue to seek assistance of any form so that we expand this programme and assist Zimbabweans from all corners of the country,” he said.