The Herald LONDON.  — Arsenal have submitted a second offer for Moises Caicedo of £60m — plus £10m in add-ons — but Brighton are set to reject the offer, with the Seagulls demanding £80m for their star midfielder. Caicedo stayed away from Brighton training on Saturday as he tries to force through a move to Arsenal or Chelsea. The Ecuador international begged Brighton to let him leave in an Instagram message on Friday night after Sportsmail reported that he was considering handing in a transfer request. Caicedo is concerned that he may not get the chance to join Arsenal or Chelsea in the summer, with the clubs set to go head-to-head for West Ham captain Declan Rice at the end of the season. However, any Rice pursuit won’t be affected by Caicedo, with the England international still in the plans of the clubs should they buy the Brighton star. One reason why Arsenal would look to sign Caicedo is the injury suffered to Thomas Partey against Man City. The midfielder is set to undergo an MRI but the hope is that his injury is not too serious. Caicedo, in his message on social media on Friday, wrote that a record transfer fee “would allow Brighton to reinvest and help the club continue to be successful.’’ After missing Saturday morning’s training session, the 21-year-old played no part in yesterday’s FA Cup fourth round tie with Liverpool at the Amex Stadium. The player wasn’t believed to be in the right frame of mind to play in the cup tie and a mutual decision was made that he shouldn’t be involved at the weekend. Caicedo changed agents recently and they are trying to push through the move. Brighton have maintained Caicedo isn’t for sale ahead of tomorrow’s transfer deadline and have rejected a £60m bid from Arsenal that may yet be increased. Caicedo said on Instagram on Friday evening: “I am grateful to Mr. Bloom and Brighton for giving me the chance to come to the Premier League and I feel I have always done my best for them. I always play football with a smile and with heart. “I am the youngest of 10 siblings from a poor upbringing in Santa Domingo in Ecuador. My dream has always to be the most decorated player in the history of Ecuador. “I am proud to be able to bring in a record transfer fee for Brighton which would allow them to reinvest it and help the club continue to be successful. “The fans have taken me into their hearts and they will always be in my heart so I hope they can understand why I want to take up this magnificent opportunity.’’ It’s understood that Brighton laughed off Chelsea’s bid of £55million earlier this window, before rejecting Arsenal’s recent offer of £60m as they hold out for a fee of £80m if he is to leave before the deadline. Sportsmail understands Caicedo has not ruled out putting in a transfer request to force a move, but Brighton are under no pressure to sell having allowed Leandro Trossard to join Arsenal for £21million. Caicedo, who has 28 caps for his country, is under contract until 2025. He joined Brighton in 2021 for £4.5m from Independiente del Valle in his homeland. Brighton boss Roberto De Zerbi, meanwhile, said of Caicedo: “I think he is a good guy, he is only focused on Brighton. I hope he can stay with us until the end of the season. In my opinion, that is the best solution for him and us.’’ Speaking earlier last week, Caicedo echoed De Zerbi and insisted he was only concentrating on playing for Brighton and continuing their impressive season which sees them in sixth place. He said: “I am focused on Brighton. I am here, I’m playing every day. Things from outside don’t trouble me, nor does it take that focus away, because I’m focused only on here. “I handle [the speculation] well. You hear rumours here and there, but I only try to be focused on the club where I am now, the club that opened the doors for me to be playing every week.’’ The Friday night post was also shared on his Twitter account, and has accumulated over 150 000 likes across both platforms. — Daily Mail.