The Herald JOHANNESBURG. — As teams put the final touches to the preparations for the inaugural ICC Under-19 Women’s T20 Cricket World Cup in South Africa, the game has been lauded for the step that it is taking by staging this tournament. Former South African captain and ICC Under-19 World Cup alumni, Graeme Smith, saluted the ICC for its commitment to growing the game across the world, while former India women’s bowler and newly appointed ICC Women’s Cricket Manager, Snehal Pradhan, applauded the ICC for introducing a platform for more opportunities for the future stars of the women’s game through this gap-bridging pathway to senior and professional cricket. As former international cricketers who have advanced to administration roles in the game, Smith and Pradhan are in the unique position of understanding the excitement of teams preparing for a World Cup and the work that it takes behind the scenes to deliver a world-class sporting event that will leave a lasting legacy. “A junior World Cup is such a terrific platform to assess where you are as a cricketer with aspirations for the future,” Smith said ahead of the tournament starting on January 14. “It is very exciting to represent your country, at any level, and I am sure there have been goosebumps across all the teams who are flying in for the Under19 Women’s T20 World Cup. It’s incredible to think that rivalries that will play out for years will be established at this tournament, as well as friendships that will last a lifetime,” he added. Pradhan believes that this is an incredible and well-deserved opportunity for the players. “It can’t be overstated what a great opportunity this is to experience a global event in their teens. They are getting exposure which they deserve, and this will provide a great step to progress to senior cricket,” she said. A junior women’s T20 World Cup is a critical addition to the global game. The birth of this tournament was delayed by the global Covid-19 pandemic but will now finally provide future stars with the same platform as their male counterparts. — AFP