The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter FRESH from a successful mission when he was leading Team Zimbabwe at the African Union Sports Council Region 5 Games in Malawi last month, young sports administrator Masimba Mutemaringa has received yet another vote of confidence. He has been appointed the Chef de Mission for the 2024 Paris Paralympic Games by the Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee. With a flawless reputation under his belt, Mutemaringa was the natural choice for the Paralympic Committee who confirmed the development in a press release signed by their president Witness Magulula yesterday. “The Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee is pleased to announce the appointment of Masimba Mutemaringa as the Chef De Mission for Team Zimbabwe for the Paris 2024 Paralympic Games to be held between 28 August and 8 September 2024. “Following an intense deliberation process by the ZNPC Board for the Chef De Mission role, Masimba Mutemaringa was confirmed and approved by the Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee as the Chef De Mission for Team Zimbabwe,” read the statement. “As an ex-officio board member of the Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee, Mutemaringa has distinguished himself as a versatile young sports administrator with a keen interest in the growth and development of Paralympic sport in Zimbabwe. His appointment follows conviction by the Board in his abilities to lead and manage the Paralympic Team, human resource management skills, public relations and understanding of protocols in sport particularly within the Paralympic movement. “Mutemaringa has got experience in this portfolio having served as Deputy Chef de Mission to Lesotho Regional Games 2020 and recently as Chef de Mission for Malawi Regional Games 2022”. Mutemaringa, who even received plaudits from Zimbabwe Ambassador to Malawi, Nancy Saungweme, during the 2022 AUSC Region 5 Games, said he was ready for the challenge. “I am really humbled by the show of trust by the Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee to lead Team Zimbabwe to the 2024 Paris Paralympic Games. “It is a joy and honour for me to represent this country and to carry and raise the colours of this great nation,” said Mutemaringa. “Preparing Team Zimbabwe for the Paralympic Games will be a great experience  for me in my journey as a sports administrator and it is my desire to turn around these lessons for the development of sport and recreation in Zimbabwe.” Mutemaringa has previously held senior posts in different missions including being Administration Officer for Team Zimbabwe in the Rabat 2019 African Games as well as Protocol and Administration Officer for the 2018 AUSC Region 5 Youth Games.