The Herald PARIS.  — The man thought to be the oldest outfield football player in a major European league system is lacing up his boots for one of the biggest games of his (very) long career. Because, even at the age of 48, Nassim Akrour is still finding ways to make an impact. On January 8, the striker, who plies his trade for Chambery Savoie Football in the fifth tier of French football, made a substitute appearance in a French Cup tie at fourth-tier Aubagne. Five minutes into his cameo, he sprinted down the touchline and served up a perfect pass for fellow striker Jordan Scarantino to shoot Chambery into a decisive 3-1 lead. That victory set up a last-32 clash with five-time winners and regular Uefa Champions League contenders Olympique Lyonnais today. “I played in Ligue 1, but for a lot of the younger kids playing against a Ligue 1 side is new so there’s a lot of euphoria and everyone is happy to prepare for this match,” the former Algeria international told BBC Sport Africa. “The Coupe de France is beautiful.” “It gives you the possibility of winning a trophy and playing in the Stade de France, and I can attest to the emotion that it gives supporters, a city, players and families.” Although he played only three seasons France’s top division, Ligue 1, Akrour is well known across the French football landscape. He holds the rare distinction of being the all-time top goalscorer for two separate clubs: FC Istres and Grenoble Foot 38. He has also appeared in all of France’s top five divisions — a feat he never thought would be possible when he first began playing football for fun with friends in the 1980s. “Football was very different at the time. Infrastructure was old, things have changed, it’s been decades…” “I started in the French third division and then I went to England to play non-league football because my uncle and aunt lived there. “I joined Sutton United, on the outskirts of London, and then I switched to Woking FC and it was great for three years.” Upon returning to France, Akrour quickly moved up the ranks with Troyes, breaking into Ligue 1 in 2002-2003. Successive promotions won him his first caps with Algeria, a mix of highs and lows. “At the 2004 Africa Cup of Nations, we lost 3-1 to Morocco after scoring a go-ahead goal in the 90th minute. “It was disappointing,” he recalls. “Yet the worst moments of my career were always when a club I played for was relegated. That is the worst feeling in football.” Over the years, Akrour has seen former contemporaries go on to accomplish great things. Olivier Giroud and Walid Regragui are just two names that Akrour shared the pitch with during his time at Grenoble during the 2007-2008 season. France forward Giroud, now his country’s record international goalscorer, and Morocco head coach Regragui made headlines when they faced each other in the semi-finals of last year’s World Cup in Qatar, sharing a warm embrace after the match. “I remember Olivier and Walid very, very well,” said Akrour excitedly. “At the time, Olivier was a young player and had come into the group and showed a lot of enthusiasm. “His success boils down to all the hard work he put into it. “As for Walid, he had a great footballing career and now he’s doing so well as a coach.”— BBC Sport Africa. 