The Herald London. — Arsenal restored their five-point lead at the top of the Premier League with Eddie Nketiah scoring twice in a 3-2 defeat of Manchester United, including a 90th-minute winner, in a rip-roaring clash at The Emirates on yesterday. Marcus Rashford gave United an early lead with a brilliant run and strike, the forward’s ninth goal in nine games in all competitions since the World Cup finished — the most of any player in Europe’s big five leagues. However, Arsenal soon levelled through Nketiah, whose powerful close-range header made it 18 goals in his last 26 starts for the club, an impressive run that includes 12 goals in his last 13 starts at the Emirates. It looked as though it would end honours even after United withstood a late siege but Nketiah tapped in from close range to send the home fans into raptures. A game that fully lived up to expectations saw Marcus Rashford give United the lead with a stunning early opener only for Nketiah to head Arsenal level in a frantic first half. Bukayo Saka’s flashing drive gave Arsenal the lead in the 53rd minute but Lisandro Martinez’s header levelled it up before the hour mark to set up an absorbing finale. Saka struck the post and Nketiah was denied by David de Gea but the hosts were relentless as they avenged their loss to United earlier in the season — their sole defeat. Mikel Arteta’s side have 50 points from 19 games with City on 45 and United in fourth place on 39, below Newcastle United on goal difference. Mikel Arteta’s side went ahead for the first time thanks to Bukayo Saka’s fizzing drive from distance eight minutes into the second half. But United were back on level terms six minutes later as Lisandro Martinez scored his first goal for United, the Argentina World Cup winner taking advantage of Aaron Ramsdale’s mistake to float a header into the net. But there was late drama as Nketiah touched home Martin Odegaard’s mishit shot and, after a tense check for offside by the Video Assistant Referee, the roof came off the Emirates. As a result, Arsenal restore their five-point lead over second-placed City, who had beaten Wolves 3-0 earlier in the day, while United remain fourth in the table and now lie 11 points off the leaders, who also have a game in hand on their title rivals. Meanwhile Haaland fired another hat-trick to earn Man City comfortable win over Wolves Norwegian goalscoring phenomenon Erling Haaland fired his fourth Premier League hat-trick of a remarkable season to earn Manchester City a comfortable 3-0 victory over Wolverhampton Wanderers on yesterday. City dominated the first half and deservedly took the lead after Haaland headed home from a pinpoint cross from Kevin De Bruyne in the 40th minute. It was a matter of time until City got that crucial second goal, with Haaland converting from the spot following a foul on Ilkay Gundogan five minutes after the break. The Norwegian then quickly completed his treble to put the game to bed. Haaland broke former Manchester United striker Ruud van Nistelrooy’s record of being the fastest player to four Premier League hat-tricks. Haaland’s four came in 19 games, Van Nistelrooy’s in 65. City cruised to victory from there on to stay five points behind league leaders Arsenal, who beat Manchester United at the Emirates Stadium later on Sunday. Wolves stay 17th on 17 points. “He (Haaland) has to get the balls delivered, he has fantastic players around him,” coach Pep Guardiola said. “The ball from Kevin is fantastic. “He (Haaland) lives 24 hours for his job, passion, love. He’s not stressed much. He is stable. He feels the defeats. His numbers are incredible. “The way we played today was quite similar to the first-half when we were losing 2-0 to Spurs (on Thursday). “Our game, football was really good. Today we improved.” Haaland had in fact endured a mini goal drought of three City appearances in all competitions prior to last week’s strike against Tottenham Hotspur, but he certainly brought his shooting boots for the visit of struggling Wolves. The home side had a host of chances to break the deadlock before Haaland pounced with clinical precision five minutes before the interval, with his second expertly put away from the spot. That penalty took him to 30 goals in all competitions with half the season left to play, before adding one more to his tally after a dreadful error from Wolves goalkeeper Jose Sa. His remarkable 25-goal league haul from 19 matches would have been enough to win the Premier League golden boot in each of the previous four seasons. Dixie Dean’s record of 60 goals scored in a single league season, set in 1928, remains in sight. Haaland has more than double the league goals Wolves have mustered this season. They are only above the relegation zone on goal difference. “We made mistakes, but the first half worried me more than the second half,” coach Julen Lopetegui said. “It’s always possible to improve the squad while the (transfer) window is open, but it’s important to improve the players who are already here.” On the other match played Leeds held to goalless draw at Brentford Leeds United and Brentford played out a 0-0 draw in the Premier League at Elland Road on yesterday as the hosts failed to move far from the relegation zone following a frustrating afternoon. The disappointing result stretches Leeds’ winless run to six league games and leaves them in 15th place in the standings just a point above third-bottom Bournemouth. “Points are crucial for us at the moment,” said Leeds forward Jack Harrison. “We would like to get as many as we can and would have liked to win but we take the point, move on and get ready for the next game.” Neither side were able to take control of the game in a scrappy and disjointed first half when Leeds had more possession and better attempts but no luck in front of goal. Max Woeber, signed earlier this month from Red Bull Salzburg, had a chance to make an impression on his first start for Leeds with a free kick from just outside the box, but fired just over the bar in the 14th minute. Brentford’s best opportunity in the first half came when Rico Henry found himself in space on the left of the box in the 37th but, instead of shooting, he attempted a pass to striker Ivan Toney, which was cut out by Robin Koch. Leeds tried hard to play with more attacking intent after the break, Brenden Aaronson, Rodrigo, Harrison and Wilfried Gnonto all forcing goalkeeper David Raya into action. Brentford occasionally threatened to hit the home side on the counter, but finished the game without a shot on target. Leeds striker Patrick Bamford looked lively after coming on late in the second half but the hosts failed to find a winner. “They (Brentford) are a tough team to break down. “They play a deep block and make it difficult for teams to penetrate them and score goals,” Harrison added. “We tried our best today with different ways — crosses, one-twos — but it didn’t quite come off.” Despite being in desperate need of a goal, Leeds boss Jesse Marsch opted not to bring on French forward Georginio Rutter, signed from Bundesliga side Hoffenheim for a club record fee earlier this month. The draw extends Brentford’s unbeaten league run to eight games and leaves them in eighth spot on 30 points from 20 matches, although Liverpool in ninth have a game in hand. — Supersport/Skysports.