The Herald Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international Marshall Munetsi has joined the FIFPRO’s Global Player Council which advocates for rights and interests of professional footballers around the world. The France-based utility man became the only Zimbabwean on the council after he was added yesterday along with Nigerian Rasheedat Ajibade and Enez Mango of Kenya. The Global Player Council is a platform for active players with international experience, ensuring viewpoints from men’s and women’s football and different leagues from around the world are heard. Munetsi, who plies his trade in the French Ligue 1 with Stade de Reims was excited by his addition. “Being a part of the Global Player Council means we can help footballers worldwide – such as protecting players against fake agents, or against government interference. I’m eager to get started,” he said yesterday. Mango, a Kenyan professional footballer who plays as a left wing back for Romania Liga 2 feminine club FC Farul Constanta and Kenya women’s national team, said she wanted to make a huge difference in players’ lives. “Players should be consulted and have a say when it comes to decisions that affect our job. I’ve joined FIFPRO’s Global Player Council in order to make a difference,” said Mango. Nigerian Ajibade is also looking forward to making her own contributions. She plays as a forward for Spanish Liga F club Atlético Madrid and the Nigeria women’s national team, the Super Falcons. “It’s important that the voices of players are heard. I’m looking forward to using my platform to help players in Africa and beyond,” Ajibade. The arrival of the trio brought the total number of players on the council to 34. Italian defender Giorgio Chiellini, Andre Ayew, Arturo Vida, Simon Mignolet and Andre Onana are among players who sit on the council. According to FIFPRO, the Global Player Council strengthens the role of professional footballers in shaping their industry at an international level, reinforcing the mandate of FIFPRO and its affiliated national player associations to protect the interests of players around the world and safeguard their rights. Active players with international experience comment on, discuss and influence global regulations, trends and the strategic development of football worldwide. “When decisions are being made that affect their livelihoods, footballers deserve a forum to have their concerns addressed. The Global Player Council is a vehicle for players with demonstrated leadership qualities to raise any issues they have. “While national player unions are the key driver of the collective voice of footballers domestically, the council strengthens the capacity to address cross-border issues, such as fixture schedules and recommended rest periods,” said FIFPRO in their brochure. The council assists FIFPRO and its 66 affiliated national player associations to represent footballers in negotiations about global issues that directly affect them including the international match calendar, employment standards, the use of personal data, social media abuse, and more. 