The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Zimbabwe youth international Elvis Moyo has confirmed signing for Harare giants Dynamos after agreeing a two-year deal. The 29-year-old, who arrives from Bulawayo Chiefs, is one of almost dozen players that have been linked with the Glamour Boys, who are seeking to replenish their squad following last week’s clearance. Moyo’s agent Trust Nyambiya of TKT Sports Agency yesterday confirmed that the left-back had finalised negotiations with DeMbare. The defender is one of the several new faces that have been spotted at the Dynamos training in the last few days. “It’s a done deal. He is going to Dynamos on a two-year deal,” said Nyambiya. With two league titles and two other major silverwares under the belt, Moyo is expected to bring a wealth of experience to the Glamour Boys. He was part of the trailblazing FC Platinum side that won their first league title in 2017. He went on to win a second the following season in 2018. Previously he had also lifted the Chibuku Super Cup in 2014 and the Castle Challenge Cup, again with FC Platinum. He has also played in the prestigious CAF Champions League and the Confederations Cup competitions, along with his twin brother Kelvin, with whom he has played with at almost every club. Kelvin is also likely to follow his brother to DeMbare. Both started at Highlanders juniors where they rose through the ranks before they moved to cross-town rivals Bantu Rovers in 2009. The twin brothers then joined FC Platinum in 2013 from Bantu Rovers. But after winning two league titles with the platinum miners, who have gone on to make it a four-peat, they decided to cross the borders and joined South Africa’s Chippa United in 2019. They left under acrimonious circumstances in 2020. While Kelvin went on to play in Zambia, Elvis spent almost a year without a club before he was accommodated by Bulawayo Chiefs in 2021. He was part of the squad that brought their maiden piece of silverware, the Chibuku Super Cup, and finished seventh last season, the best ever position achieved by the club since its entry into the PSL in 2018. However, the defender experienced frustrations at Chiefs, who are likely to experience an exodus due to their failure to settle players’ salaries on time. Moyo is expected to compete for the left-back position at Dynamos with Brendon Moyo and Tino Muringai, although he can also adapt in central defence. Dynamos parted ways with two central defenders that included their captain of two years Partson Jaure and Ghanaian Sylvester Appiah. The Glamour Boys last week announced they were parting with 13 players. Vice-captain Godknows Murwira was also caught up in the purge, among the seven players whose contracts were not renewed on December 31. Ghanaian defender Appiah, Cameroonian Albert Eonde, Nigerian Alex Orotomal, Ralph Kawondera and Keith Murera were also denied contract extensions. Midfielder Trevor Mavhunga’s contract also expired and he opted out and has since signed for Manica Diamonds. Murwira has moved to cross-town rivals CAPS United while Jaure is on his way to Simba Bhora, to reunite with coach Tonderai Ndiraya, whose contract was also not extended. The contracts of veteran forward Evans Katema and Ghanaian Martin Orfori are set to be terminated while the trio of youngsters Luke Musikiri, Claivert Tshuma and Stephen Chatikobo, who had joined Dynamos under an agreement with Prince Edward Academy, have reverted back to the academy. Harare giants started last week under new coach Herbert Maruwa. DeMbare are expected to unveil their new squad in the coming days after parting ways with about 13 players last week. The Glamour Boys have also been linked with the ex-Harare City duo Donald Mudadi and Emmanuel Ziocha, Tanaka Shandirwa from Yadah, Jayden Barake formerly of Whawha, Nyasha Chintuli from Manica Diamonds and Soccer Star of the Year finalist, Eli Ilunga. Meanwhile, PSL new boys Simba Bhora are reported to have sacked former Zimbabwe international Hardlife Zvirekwi. The 35-year-old is one of the players with Premiership experience, who helped Simba Bhora gain their maiden PSL ticket after winning the ZIFA Northern Region Soccer League title last year. Simba Bhora Secretary-General Tendai Janhi told The Herald yesterday that they were still assembling a squad that they hope will be competitive in their maiden season and will unveil their new signings once they have finished all the processes.