The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter ONE of Zimbabwe’s top female boxersMonalisa Sibanda has been offered the opportunity to rule the world. And she is willing to step up to the plate. The Women’s International Boxing Association (WIBA) intercontinental welterweight champion has been handed the chance to challenge for the world title. And the pioneering local female boxer has since met the set conditions to effectively pave the way for the fight which is scheduled for end of February. She is billed to fight world title holder Alicia Kummer of Germany at the end of next month with the venue still to be determined. The offer comes on the heels of Sibanda’s triumph in defending her intercontinental belt which she retained in July last year after beating challenger Small Valente Aciro of Uganda on points at the Kingdom Hotel in Victoria Falls. Although the victory was somehow overshadowed by the historic WBC training workshop and ABU convention which took part at the same venue, the country’s first female professional boxer has been receiving acclaim from all over the globe. And WIBA have also decided to give her a chance to challenge for the global title. In their congratulatory message, WIBA, through their president Ryan Wissow, confirmed Sibanda will have a shot at the world title. “The current WIBA intercontinental champion (successfully) defended her title in this championship by a unanimous point decision 100-94,100-96,100-92. This win will serve as a launch pad for her to contend for the world championship title,” read the statement. “The WIBA President Ryan Wissow, and the WIBA entire team congratulate Sibanda on her defence and offer her a chance to fight with the current champion Alicia Kummer of Germany.” And an excited Sibanda, who has since undergone medicals and other requisite tests said she was ready for the bout. “Let me start by expressing my gratitude to WIBA for the chance they have given me. “I won the intercontinental belt first in 2019 against Joyce Awino before successfully defending the championship last year against Aciro. “And to be rewarded with an opportunity to challenge for the world title is a dream,” said Sibanda. “I am very happy and I will make sure that I win this fight. “I am grateful for the support I continue to receive from every Zimbabwean and I will fight for the badge. “I have already started preparations for the fight. I will have some sparring with different boxers and if resources permit, I would like to have preparations against foreign partners.” Should Sibanda be successful in the upcoming fight, she will become only the second boxer from this country, after Charles Manyuchi, to win a world title. Manyuchi is the current WBF middleweight champion. Kuda “Take Money” Chiwandire will also have a shot at the WBC world championship in March after her successful defence of the interim stripe.