The Herald Arts Reporter Africa Social Entertainment award winner disc jockey Tinotenda Marimo, affectionately known as Dj Rimo in music circles, says growth is key to progress in dee-jaying career. The popular DJ, who has been one of the best and most sought after in 2022, spoke about his plans for 2023. However, when it comes to other popular festivals around the world, Dj Rimo has not confirmed a single performance, even though sources are saying that he is lined up on some of the major international tours, but cannot comment due to contractual agreements. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Dj Rimo talked about his career so far and his plans for the future. “Yes, it’s sometimes a little too much and I am not going to lie, because at the moment 2023 is already busy for me. I sat down with my team and we laid the plans already and although it’s a lot, it is the life I chose, and it makes me very happy,” he said. “I want to work hard and I am happy that the year started on a good note. My agenda also includes skilling up as I gain more experience behind the decks.” He said this year he wants to focus more on international collaborations. “I had the singular honour of receiving an African Social Award as the best Male DJ which I take a lot of pride in having. In 2023 I have a number of collaborations in the works with regional and international artistes who I will be working with which will help put the country’s flag on the map in the entertainment space,” he said. Asked how 2022 has been, Dj Rimo said it was a good year though it was hectic. “2022 has been an interesting year, the entertainment industry came out of lockdown in Zimbabwe and things started slow, but began to improve as people were desperate to go out and get some normalcy. I feel very blessed, very lucky. Sometimes I have to pinch myself to check if I am not dreaming. I am so grateful for these opportunities and appreciate the fact that I had platforms to showcase my talent,” he said. “I toured South Africa, Dubai and the United States of America. I am the producer for the popular social media reality show “Denny J show” and hosted Major League in Harare and Dubai. I then performed alongside some of the regional and international acts who include Musakeys, Focalist, Mahoo, Mi Casa, Dj Tira, Gigi La Mayne, Makhadzi, PrinceKaybee, Ladipoe, Costa Titch, Mdoovar, Mas_musiq, Rick Ross and Cassper Nyovest, among others. He said that the entertainment sector was not spared from the effects of Covid as everything died down and this however, prompted them to be creative and adapt to the new normal. “The digital space became an extended part of my brand which led to many brand partnerships which sustained me as a brand”. He credited his success last year to patience and opportunities he had been privileged to. “I would say that this industry is tough and it requires hard work and self-development. That combination of hard work, spending a lot of time developing myself as a performer and person and integrity has made me who I am today. For me, self-development means  make sure as a person you are doing things that make you function and constantly monitor yourself. Whether this success will continue in 2023, I don’t know, but this is my wish too.” He added that people should respect and understand his profession. “People should understand that being a DJ is a profession that can sustain one’s livelihood. It is not an area where one can wake up without the requisite skill set and pronounce themselves with nothing  to showcase for it. The area has been heavily male dominated but one can now see how trail blazers like King Her are breaking that stereotype. The appreciation of brands like Uncle Waffles has also helped share light and recognition on the craft and has people taking it seriously now,” he explained. Dj Rimo said apart from being on deck, he was working on expanding his clothing line as he has managed to sort a deal with a regional distribution company which he will announce later in the year.