The Herald Sports Reporter THE Sports and Recreation Commission have postponed the official release of the long-awaited ZIFA Restructuring Committee report. The report was set to be tabled yesterday but Sports Commission officials said the regulator had decided to give decision makers at ZIFA enough time to go through the document before making it public. “The reason for the postponement is to allow ZIFA and its members to have adequate time to receive and digest the recommendations,” said Sports Commission spokesperson Elta Nengomasha. The report was prepared by a nine-member committee set up by the Sports Commission in December 2021 as part of the strategic roadmap towards addressing the issues that have affected football management and administration in Zimbabwe for many years. This committee, made up of experts in various fields of administration, sports management, legal advisory and business management, was acting independent of ZIFA and the Sports Commission and had the autonomy to discharge its functions more fully as set out in its terms of reference. Their report is a product of one year of intense research and it aims to address the current status quo within football structures and administration and recommends solutions designed to usher in a new and refreshing chapter for local football. The findings and recommendations will help Zimbabwe address the challenges that have bedevilled football administration for many years. The committee, which was unveiled in December 2021, was given one year to carry out its mandate and they managed to hand over the report to the Sports Commission last month, just a few days ahead of the December 31 deadline. The ZIFA leadership is expected to discuss the report at their Annual General Meeting, which had been set for January 28. However, it has since emerged that the AGM has been postponed. The AGM was amongst other issues also set to give legal authority to decisions the executive committee has taken in between congresses. Zimbabwean football is currently in limbo following the suspension of ZIFA’s membership by FIFA. But many developments are expected this year through the anticipated football reforms.