The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Davis Cup tennis team member Benjamin Lock is positive they will rise to the challenge when they face Uruguay this weekend in the World Group II Play-offs at Harare Sports Club. The tie is set for Friday and Saturday. Zimbabwe’s team is made up of Benjamin and his young brother Courtney, Mehluli Sibanda and Benedict Badza. They will be led by captain Takanyi Garanganga. All the players are now in, and they had their first practice sessions together at Harare Sports Club yesterday. Garanganga and former Davis Cup captain Gwinyai Tongoona were on the court assisting the players yesterday as Zimbabwe are leaving no stone unturned to win the tie. “I think it’s really nice to have Takanyi involved with the team. Obviously he is a very close friend of mine and former teammate as well, and a great player. So he brings very good knowledge and experience to the team and I think he is doing a great job of managing everything so well. “And it’s so nice to see him involved and very excited about the Davis Cup coming up. “So for us we are just trying to have as many good practices as possible leading up to the tie. Hopefully, the weather allows us to get on the court throughout the week. “And the main thing, just to enjoy ourselves and just enjoy the moment of being able to play tennis in Zimbabwe because this is the only time we get to play here the whole year, unfortunately. So we are super happy to be here” said Benjamin. The Lock brothers have had some impressive performances on the ATP Challenger Tour from last year and Benjamin said it’s something positive which they can build on going into the weekend’s tie. “It’s huge. I mean Courtney and I we played the majority of the year on the ATP Challenger Tour last year and we made two finals and won some tournaments as well. In the singles, I made two quarter-finals on the Challenger Tour which I was really happy about and I (managed to) beat some good players. “So I think for me, it’s a big advantage because it sends a message to our opponents that we have been playing at a pretty high level and they know they have to play pretty well in this tie if they would like to win. “I think overall it’s pretty good and we are happy to be here and hoping to play some of our good form that we have been playing in the last couple of months,” said Benjamin. Zimbabwe have also brought in a development side consisting of Shane Tapera, Takura Muhwandagara, Ronan Mtisi and Thompson Thomu. And they were part of the training session yesterday, sparring with the main team. Zimbabwe, ranked number 67 in the world, will be out to cause an upset when they step onto the court against Uruguay, who are ranked 42. Badza, who is making his second appearance in the team, is excited to be part of this tie. “It feels amazing and it’s a good experience for me because I get to practice with the best and to prepare for my own junior tournaments as well. So it’s an amazing feeling and I can’t wait to participate. “I am hoping I get the chance to play and make my first appearance on actual playing and I really pray for victory so that we can just be happy,” said the 17-year-old. Uruguay arrived on Friday led by their captain Enrique Perez-Cassarino. The team consists of Ariel Behar, Martin Cuevas, Ignacio Carou, Franco Roncadelli and Joaquin Aguilar Cardozo.