The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premiership football side Herentals have beaten competition from the big guns to sign one of the most-sought-after defensive midfielders in the country, Ashwald Phiri. The grafter had an outstanding season with Black Rhinos last year and the army side were desperate to hold on to their asset since the expiration of his contract at the end of last year. Given the nod to express himself by Herbert ‘’Jompano’’ Maruwa at Black Rhinos, Phiri was tipped to reunite with the mentor who is now at Dynamos. But despite keen interest from the Glamour Boys, Simba Bhora and Manica Diamonds, Phiri has decided to play for the Students. He has committed two years with the Kumbirai Mutuwekuziva-coached team who were one of the outstanding teams last season, finishing the league in 8th place while reaching the final of the Chibuku Super Cup. Herentals coach Mutuwekuziva has been scratching his head with only one natural anchorman, William Kapumha, in his fold. Kapumha, one of the senior players in the Students’ squad, had a good season in 2022. But Mutuwekuziva often wants to twin the central midfield and he was forced to push centre-back Gibson Chinobva into that position as he didn’t have sufficient staff for the position. And the arrival of Phiri has excited the soft-spoken Nyanga-born mentor. “I am happy to have been able to draw Ashwald Phiri into our squad. “Everyone in the league knows about Phiri’s qualities and what he is capable of doing,” said Mutuwekuziva. “This is a versatile boy and one of the best for the position in the country. “And for us to be able to lure him to the squad means a lot to us. “He will bring a new dimension to the team. We have worked with him for just two weeks but you can see the zeal and the spirit in him. “He is a fighter and a winner. We hope he will be able to bring his total game to Herentals, complimenting our veteran William Kapumha and others in midfield.” Mutuwekuziva has also rewarded outstanding Herentals juniors playing in the Herentals Under-20 side in the Northern Region Division One Soccer League last year. The Herentals Under-20 team finished the season as runners-up to champions Simba Bhora who will be playing in the top-flight this coming season. Several youngsters impressed for the Paul Benza team in the First Division and Mutuwekuziva has decided to elevate three of them. Goalkeeper Nevermind Antonio, who kept 22 clean sheets in the entire season, will add more steel in the already sparkling post in the senior team. Antonio joins Takudzwa Chikosi and Prosper Chigumba whom he will be competing against. Herentals have a good reputation of producing good goalkeepers from their feeder clubs. They have groomed the Dynamos pair of Prince Tafiremutsa and Frank Kuchineyi while Chikosi, whom they elevated only last season, was one of the best goalkeepers in the league. So good was the 20-year-old Chikosi he was amongst the best four goalkeepers in the entire league, in terms of the number of clean sheets kept. With 16 clean sheets to his name, Chikosi was only bested by Goalkeeper of the Year, Nelson Chadya of Ngezi Platinum Stars and Soccer Star of the Year finalist Wallace Magalane. Herentals have also promoted former Mutare City defender Joseph Chitavira who impressed in their Under-20 team last year. Chitavira is expected to complement defenders Brighton Majarira, Luke Ruguchu, Prince Chama, Wilmore Chimbetu and Chinobva. Mutuwekuziva will next week announce the other player to be elevated from the junior ranks while also confirming the names of those who could be dropped to the First Division side or leave the team totally. The door, however, hasn’t been shut for new recruits at the team.