The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CENTURIES by the West Indies captain Kraigg Brathwaite and wicket-keeper Joshua da Silva were the major highlights as the touring side put final touches to their preparations for the first Test against Zimbabwe during the three-day warm-up game with a Zimbabwe XI at Bulawayo Athletic Club. The tourists piled up 517 runs in their first innings and then followed up the performance well with the ball when they had the Zimbabwe XI all out for just 122 runs. However, this match was not included in the first-class records because both teams decided to play their full squads of 15 players in a mere practice game, although only 11 players per side are allowed to bat or field at a time. Donald Tiripano, captaining the home side, had put the tourists in to bat on winning the toss. The West Indies started off on strong footing and they faced 132.5 overs for their first innings score. They had a good outing on Day One when they ended on 313/5. Brathwaite was the highlight of the first day’s play with his ton. Brathwaite opened the batting with the left-handed Tagenarine Chanderpaul (46) and the pair put on 137 runs for the first wicket. Chanderpaul was dismissed off an excellent catch by the wicket-keeper Tafadzwa Tsiga from the bowling of Tanaka Chivanga. Brathwaite then decided to retire and let his other batters have a turn after scoring 116 runs from the 170 deliveries he faced. West Indies were 195/1 at the time. Da Silva also retired voluntarily when he reached his 100* off 149 balls. Rolston Chase was unbeaten on 87 runs. But Devon Thomas (49) and Kyle Mayers (46) missed half tons. Milton Shumba took 3-80 for Zimbabwe XI while Tiripano finished with 2-34. Tanaka Chivanga was the most economical for the Zimbabweans after he returned figures of 1-23 from 12.3 overs. Zimbabwe XI batters faced difficulties from the onset of the chase. Kudzai Maunze was the first to go, in the second over without a run on the board, as he edged a delivery from Alzarri Joseph to the wicket-keeper. Joylord Gumbie hit two fours, but was then out for 11, in the same way as Maunze. The other opening batter, Tanunurwa Makoni (13) was third out with the score at 30 runs, caught at slip off Kyle Mayers. The West Indies continued to dominate with the ball as well, with wickets spread across the board. There were two wickets apiece for Joseph, Shannon Gabriel and Gudakesh Motie while Chase, Mayers, Jarmain Blackwood and Jason Holder had one wicket each. They had Zimbabwe XI reeling at 52/5 by the time bad light stopped play on Day 2. Wessly Madhevere (0) quickly went lbw to Holder without scoring, while Tony Munyonga was caught on the leg side off a bouncer from Gabriel for one run. Timycen Maruma was the top scorer for Zimbabwe XI with 37 runs. He and Shumba showed some spirit by fighting off the attack and surviving until the early close of Day 2 due to poor light and lightning. But Shumba (13) went out early on Day three after adding just four runs to his overnight score yesterday. Generally, the Zimbabwe batters had a bad day in the office as they were cleaned out before the Windies took the bat again and reached 82-2 by the time the game ended. Zimbabwe national team head coach, Dave Houghton, is already in Bulawayo and has been spending time at BAC keeping an eye on the warm-up match as he is set to announce his final squad during the course of the week. Zimbabwe and the West Indies are scheduled to clash in the first Test this Saturday. Zimbabwe XI, West Indies Warm-up result summary: Match drawn West Indies – 517-8 in 132.5 overs (Kraigg Brathwaite 116, Joshua Da Silva 100, Roston Chase 87*; Milton Shumba 3/80, Donald Tiripano 2/34, Tanaka Chivanga 1/23) and 82-2 in 27.1 overs Zimbabwe XI – 122 in 56.3 overs (Timycen Maruma 37, Tafadzwa Tsiga 21, Faraz Akram 19; Alzarri Joseph 2/12, Shannon Gabriel 2/21, Gudakesh Motie 2-24)