The Herald Crime Reporter TWO women believed to have been part of a gang that broke into nine houses and shops in Zvishavane over the past five weeks and stole groceries and electrical appliances, have been arrested. Talent Mutangi (19) and Virginia Sibanda (37) were arrested by detectives in Zvishavane for unlawful entry into premises and theft. Criminal Investigation Department acting spokesperson, Detective Assistant Inspector Rachel Muteweri, said the two had so far assisted in the clearing of nine counts. “During the period extending from December 5 last year to January 5 this year, the two accused persons together with their accomplices, Joe Sibanda and Itai Sibanda, who are still at large, would target business premises in Zvishavane town. “They unlawfully entered shops before getting away with groceries, clothing, electrical gadgets and other valuables,” she said. In one incident, the suspects broke into a shop last week and got away with solar panels, a speaker, car amplifier, radio amplifier, car battery and other valuables, all valued at US$805. “Luck ran out for the accused persons on January 5 when detectives got information that three accused persons had broken into another shop. A team of detectives swiftly reacted to the information leading to the arrest of the two while their accomplice escaped.” Further investigations revealed that the accused persons had committed eight similar offences in the Zvishavane area. Property worth US$2 700 was recovered following the arrest of the two. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police would like to thank members the public for supplying credible information that led to the arrest of the accused persons. “Meanwhile, we are appealing for information which may lead to the arrest of the outstanding suspects, Joe Sibanda and Itai Sibanda. Anyone with information leading to the arrest of the accused persons should feel free to report to any nearest police station, call or WhatsApp PGHQ on 0712 800 197 or contact the National Complaints’ Desk on 0242 703631,” Detective Asst Insp Muteweri said. She urged members of the public to reinforce security measures at their business and residential premises to avoid falling prey to criminals.