The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE national cricket team coach Dave Houghton has backed the young guns in his team to rediscover their form as the Chevrons engage Ireland in a three-match ODI series that begins today at Harare Sports Club. The home team carry a psychological advantage going into the 50-over game, following their successes in the T20I series that ended at the weekend. Zimbabwe beat their rivals 2-1. But there have been concerns over the form of some of the team players that include Wessly Madhevere, Tadiwanashe Marumani and Clive Madande. The trio is regarded the core of the Zimbabwean cricket team’s future and have been key in the current integration process under Houghton. They are expected to replace, in the not-so-distant-future, the ageing senior players like Craig Ervine, Sean Williams and Sikandar Raza who have now crossed to the other side of the 30’s. So much was expected from all-rounder Madhevere in the T20I series. Madhevere did well with the ball but could not complement his efforts with the bat, where his contributions are needed the most. “Everybody goes through bad patches,” said Houghton. “I have been through a couple of them myself and when you are in them you almost don’t know which side of the bat to hold. But you find ways to get out that you cannot imagine. “Wessly is going through that at the moment but the great thing about him is that he offers you so much else, like the bowling (in the third T20I) was a complete surprise to the opponents. “On top of that we all know he is one of the best fielders around. So obviously he would have to persevere. I don’t have an answer how he will get out of that but he will get out of that the same way he got into it. He will keep working,” said Houghton. Wicketkeeper/batter Madande has proved a perfect replacement for Regis Chakabva behind the stumps but the team is yet to get the best of him with the bat. Unlike Madhevere, Madande who has a single ODI cap and four T20I appearances under the belt, is fairly new to the national team set-up. Houghton said the coaches are working hard to help the 22-year-old settle into the Chevrons. “Everything we do in the coaching side takes players to the edge of the field and the place that they learn is when they cross that line and go out there and play. “Clive has had to wait a long time behind Regis for an opportunity and I think he has had a good three games in the T20Is. His keeping in particular was electric and he took a great catch in the first game we won. “He was fantastic; had pace and speed around the stumps, stopping singles and things. I don’t think I can actually remember him making a mistake behind the stumps. The batting will come the more he plays,” said Houghton. Top order batsman Marumani has had an imperious form in the domestic game but he is also finding it hard to convert the form to international cricket. The 21-year-old, who is also good as a wicketkeeper, had a disappointing outing during the T20I series where he scored 11 runs in three innings. Houghton, however, is not willing to put the players under pressure. “Firstly, we need to give them more time. I am not really in the habit of giving a guy two games and then leaving him out again. So, with Marumani, I would hope he will continue with us through the one-day stuff as well. “You know, you get luckier (the more you play). When I was a kid coming into the team, I was a wicketkeeper/batter and I was lucky that I was a wicketkeeper because my batting was rubbish. “I was able to keep my place in the team as a keeper and then I learnt how to bat. Someone like Marumani, he is a very accomplished young batsman. He just needs to find his ground in the men’s side and I think the more we can play him the more chance he would find his form. “I thought Innocent (Kaia) was really good in the two games that we played him and I am sure he will be up there when we play the ODI series as well,” said Houghton. The Zimbabwe cricket legend is hoping for another series victory over their bogey side. They won 2-1 in the shortest version and Houghton is still aiming for a clean sweep in the one-day games. “When I quoted as saying I wanted to win 6-0 actually I wasn’t thinking right because all I wanted to do was win the two series. I would like to win them 3-0 but the bottom line is it’s important to win a series. “We are going to the ODI series now and our target is still the same, try and win every game that we play and try and win the series. Hopefully it’s 3-0 but if it’s 2-1 I will take it again,” said Houghton. Zimbabwe’s batting is set to get a boost following the return of Sikandar Raza from franchise cricket abroad, Gary Ballance, who has recovered from a concussion, and veteran Chamunorwa Chibhabha, who makes a surprise return on account of his devastating form on the domestic front. In-form leg-spinner Brandon Mavuta has also been rewarded with a place in the squad. “Our bowling and fielding unit, the two work hand-in-hand,” said Houghton. “I think if you see the statistics I put on the television last year in T20I cricket we were the leading side in the world in runs per-over as a bowling and fielding unit, above England and Pakistan. “We have quite a simple strategy when we bowl and we back it up with electric fielding. That’s what has kept us in so many games. Our batting is our weakness. “It’s going to get better we hope. The more we play the more the guys grow, the more the maturity in batting gets better. Our bowling and our fielding have been outstanding, I can’t praise them high enough”.