The Herald Herald Reporter The Secretary to Service Commissions Dr Tsitsi Choruma has appointed an eight-member board for the Skills Attraction, Retention and Development Fund which is set to galvanise the commission’s quest to attract highly skilled and experienced professionals to all levels. The fund is set aside to attract skilled personnel to drive Government’s developmental trajectory which is marching towards the attainment of an upper middle income society by 2030 as enunciated by President Mnangagwa. Also the fund is mandated to attract skills and competencies necessary to drive the devolved structures of Government and bring into reality the devolution and decentralisation agenda and to strengthen the capacity of the commission to retain critical skills and prevent skills flight. In a statement last night Dr Choruma announced the appointment of the board members of the Skills Attraction, Retention and Development Fund. She said the board has been put in place in order to institute sound corporate governance and invigorate efforts to retain critical skills and prevent skills flight within the Public Service. “The main purpose of the Skills Attraction, Retention and Development Fund is to attract, retain and develop capacities and competencies of skilled and experienced professionals in the Public Service,” said Dr Choruma. “The appointment of the Skills Attraction, Retention and Development Fund Board is intended to promote independent running of the Fund and to also ensure that critical stakeholders’ interests are well-represented in the day to day running of the initiative.” Eight members from Government, the private sector and State enterprise, have been named to the Skills Attraction, Retention and Development Fund Board. These are Ms N Zhou – general manager, Human Resources (Health Service Board); Mr P Takavarasha – chief director, Expenditure Management (Ministry of Finance and Economic Development); Professor Rudhumbu — chief director, Human Capital Planning & Skills Development (Ministry of Higher and Tertiary Education); and Dr E Nharirire — group human resources executive (Private Sector); as well as Mr E Gapara — chief director, Human Resources (Office of the President and Cabinet). Three members from the Public Service Commission have also been named to the Board, namely Ms N Chivake — Head Legal Services, Corporate Affairs and Protocol; Mr W Mpandawana — Head, Human Capital Development and Management, and Dr H Chikova – Pay and Benefits Development and Management. The Constitution of the Fund provides that the Skills Attraction, Retention and Development Fund is administered by the Secretary of the Service Commissions, who appoints the Board to run its affairs. “These appointments are with immediate effect,” said Dr Choruma. She said the Fund ‘s specific objectives include the following: “To attract highly skilled and experienced professionals to all levels in the Public Service and enable Government to plan and implement initiatives necessary to achieve sustainable development and economic growth within the context of National Development Strategy 1 and in pursuit of Vision 2030; “To attract skills and competencies necessary to drive the devolved structures of Government and bring into reality the Devolution and Decentralisation Agenda; and “To strengthen the capacity of the Public Service to retain critical skills and prevent skills flight in crucial areas of public service delivery,” said Dr Choruma.