The Herald LONDON. — David de Gea  is willing to take a pay cut if it secures his long-term future at Old Trafford. Manchester United have just activated their 12-month option on the goalkeeper, keeping him at the club until the end of next season. The Spain star, 32, would love to stay way beyond that and is hoping for a minimum three-year extension if he can agree a new deal. Now Old Trafford sources claim De Gea has told club bosses he is after security, rather than trying to hold them to ransom — and if that means slashing his wages, then he will do so. He is currently the Reds’ top earner at around £375 000 a week and would have to take a drop of more than 25 per cent to get his wish. Boss Erik ten Hag has assured the keeper he has his full backing and is not chasing a new No. 1, despite links with Brentford’s David Raya. De Gea hopes that by blinking first a deal can be done as he does not want contract talks heading into the summer. And insiders claim United are equally confident of reaching an agreement for the man who has been at the club since June 2011. Meanwhile, Hakim Ziyech could be the first victim of Chelsea’s January transfer spree by joining Italian Serie football side Roma. The winger has been targeted by the Italians as he finds himself squeezed out at Stamford Bridge. Talks are underway with Roma boss Jose Mourinho keen to sign the Moroccan World Cup star. Ziyech has found himself back in the first team at Chelsea in recent weeks but fears for his long term future. He struggled for a place in boss Graham Potter’s side before the World Cup in November and is only getting game time due to injuries and new arrivals. Chelsea have Raheem Sterling and Christian Pulisic on their injury list and have just signed £88m wideman Mykhailo Mudryk. Ziyech had fancied a move to Barcelona but would be keen to move to Serie A to play under Mourinho if it means more game time. He joined Chelsea from Ajax for around £35m in 2020. The left-footed ace has since made 98 appearances, scoring 14 times and laying on 11 assists. Prior to the World Cup he started just one English Premier League match this term, while Thomas Tuchel was still at the helm. But recent injuries have brought him back into contention – being selected to start three of his side’s last four. These outings included Saturday’s 0-0 draw with Liverpool, during which he was unable to conjure a goal. Chelsea have so far splashed £186.5m on permanent signings this month, as well as a further £10m loan fee on Joao Felix. — The Sun.