The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter SHE was waiting for this milestone to finally reveal a long-kept secret. One of the most decorated female boxers in the country, Monalisa “Queen of the Jungle” Sibanda turned 40, on Thursday last week. But she didn’t throw a party. They say life begins at 40 and one would have expected the pioneering female professional pugilist to celebrate the day. Even wildly. But, she spent the majority of the day in the gym. She chose her profession. By the way, Sibanda is preparing for the Women International Boxing Association (WIBA) lightweight world title fight against Alicia Kummer of Germany on April 28. The venue of the fight is yet to be confirmed. And Zimbabwe’s first professional female boxer is throwing everything into training ahead of her biggest fight. This is the first time that Sibanda will be fighting for a world title and she will become only the second Zimbabwean to do so after Charles Manyuchi. Of course, Kuda “Take Money” Chiwandire also has a world championship bout on the cards against Mexican Yamileth Mecardo coming up in either March or April. She will be challenging for the World Boxing Council (WBC) super-bantamweight gold belt. And Sibanda knows the WIBA world title could be her last chance to bookmark her supremacy in the game she joined when she was barely nine-years-old. And for the past 31 years, Sibanda has been dodging a prominent question on why she decided to venture into boxing. Back then, it was considered taboo for girls to engage in combat sports like boxing. Having brushed aside the stereotypes, still Sibanda couldn’t find female opponents to fight against. She ended up squaring up against boys of her age, most of whom she overcame. And after years of ducking the question, she finally decided to open up on the occasion of her 40th birthday. “Look, I become emotional when I reflect on the reasons why I decided to venture into a sport which was a preserve of boys back then,” said Sibanda. “But after witnessing a nasty incident in which my defenceless mother was beaten by my father before being burnt to death right in my face, I decided that I should acquire a skill that I would be able to use to defend myself from monsters. “That incident still plays in my mind as if it happened yesterday. “It’s really traumatic. That is how I lost my mother and I hated men, especially back then. “I would grow up under the care of my maternal grandmother in Mabvuku. “I wouldn’t be able to really master my academics due to the trauma. “When I was just nine-years-old, I decided to venture into boxing. “My initial plan was just to gain some skills to defend myself from bullies. “But I would later learn that I could actually become a professional fighter and lead a life which I decided to do.” Sibanda is looking for sponsorship ahead of the big fight. Her plan, if she gets sponsors, is to bring the fight home. “At the moment, it’s only the date that has been set. Neither my camp or Kummer’s camp has taken the responsibility to host the bout,” she said. “It’s always good to fight at home. It means a lot of business for the country, especially if it’s a world title fight. “So, I am appealing to corporates and individuals to come forward and help us take this fight home. “I also need several things to help in my preparations. This is the biggest fight I am entering since I started my boxing career. “I am happy with the moral support I am receiving from my fellow Zimbabweans. It really means the world for me.” Sibanda was offered the chance to challenge for the global championship after successfully defending her intercontinental belt against Small Valente Aciro of Uganda in Victoria Falls last year. She claimed the stripe first in April 2019 following her victory over Joyce Awino of Kenya.