The Herald SYDNEY. — South Africa’s warrior, Anrich Nortje, grabbed the invaluable wicket of Marnus Labuschagne with the last ball of the day as Australia finished on 147 for two in 47 overs on a frustrating opening day — disrupted by rain and bad light — of the third and final Test cricket at the Sydney Cricket Ground yesterday. Nortje, who once again gave his all, bowling consistently in the 140s, finished with 2/26 off 11 overs after Australia had won the toss and chosen to bat. He was the sole wicket-taker for the Proteas, dismissing David Warner in his second over and then claiming the key wicket of Labuschagne for 79 (151 balls, 13x4s). In rather gloomy light, the world’s No. 1 Test batsman edged a superb delivery that rose off a length on the line of the off-stump on the way to wicketkeeper Kyle Verreynne. As Steve Smith came to the crease, the umpires then took the players off the field for the final time. Labuschagne’s dismissal will have mollified South African supporters who felt that he was dismissed on 70 by Simon Harmer at slip off the bowling of Marcus Jansen. Labuschagne edged a drive low to Harmer who claimed the catch. The onfield umpire agreed with him, giving a “soft signal” of out, but third umpire Richard Kettleborough disagreed, judging that the ball had touched the grass first. As it turned out, the Proteas only “lost” nine runs. Nortje’s initial strike was the key wicket of the double-century maker at Melbourne, Warner. The super-confident left-hander looked in fine fettle as he square cut and pulled two early boundaries before attempting a loose square cut that flew to Jansen at first slip who made the head-high catch look easy. The bulk of the day’s play was devoted to a fine second-wicket partnership of 135 in 261 balls between Usman Khawaja and Labuschagne who took the total from 12 to 147. The morning’s play was slow and methodical with both batsmen focusing largely on defence on a slow pitch. It was the kind of surface that repaid hard graft with the ball not coming onto the bat. From the bowlers’ point of view it was also frustrating as there was little swing and bounce and virtually no movement off the seam. Lunch was taken on 68 for one off 28 overs, a very un-Australian rate of progress, but thereafter Labuschagne in particular pressed the accelerator with a series of pulls, sweeps and clips through the onside. At the drinks break the Aussies had upped the ante with 70 runs coming off 15 overs. Bad light and rain struck with the total on 138 for one in 43 overs and there was a long break before the players returned for just four more overs. Kagiso Rabada was expensive in his second spell, going for 45 runs in his 12 overs, as was Keshav Maharaj who conceded 35 in nine rather innocuous overs. Offspinner Simon Harmer, who replaced Lungi Ngidi in the team, looked more threatening but was only allowed five overs. — AFP.