The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter FORMER Zimbabwe international Methembe Ndlovu is confident that Marvelous Nakamba will bounce back and make an impact in the English Premier League if given enough time. Nakamba has been struggling for game-time at his English Premier League football side Aston Villa this season as he is yet to start a match. The midfielder has made 58 appearances since joining the club, 29 coming on his maiden season in the 2019/20 season. He followed that up with 13 appearances the next season but has had to grapple with a series of injuries and loss of form. Last year, Nakamba had 16 appearances but his former mentor at Bantu Rovers where he started his career, Ndlovu, believes the midfielder still has the clout to play in a competitive environment such as the English Premiership. “I think it’s part of the profession where you hit turbulent times but with time and hard work he will get back on his feet. He is a good player who is capable and I hope he will be strong enough to get back to his best,” said Ndlovu. Nakamba, who joined the English Premier Soccer League side Aston Villa from Club Brugge in 2019, is a product of Ndlovu’s famed Bantu Rovers, which has produced several professional players dotted across the globe. But Nakamba, who fell out of favour with former head coach Steven Gerrard and his interim successor Aaron Danks, is still finding it difficult to get game-time under Villa’s new manager Unai Emery. The Zimbabwean had featured heavily under Gerrard when he first took over Smith and was a key cog in the team, arguably the most important member of the first XI. But after sustaining a knee injury in December 2021, Nakamba has started just two times since returning to full fitness in April. It was worse this season as he has not featured in any of the English Premiership assignments for Villa. The midfielder has apparently become a target for the January cleanout in the bloated Villa midfield. According to the Birmingham Mail, Nakamba along with fellow midfielders Coutinho and Morgan Sanson, may be told to leave the club if a suitable offer is tabled for the midfielder given that Boubacar Kamara and Douglas Luiz are both ahead in the number six role. Nakamba, who turns 29 this month, played an important part during the early days of Gerrard’s tenure at the club. But his case became complicated following a serious knee injury that kept him out for five months. However, Nakamba still has a running contract with Villa which expires in 2024. A loan deal is more likely this month, and it will be wise for him to go where he is assured of some game-time. Ndlovu, who conducted trials in Harare this week with the aim of arranging scholarships for the promising candidates, believes Nakamba is one of the examples of how football talent could be rewarding if nurtured well. With so much attachment with his former club Highlanders, Ndlovu remains one of the Bulawayo giants’ fans favourite sons after he won their last Premier League title in 2006. Now a head coach at Trinity University in the United States, Ndlovu said he was not looking forward to returning home and taking up responsibility for any local team yet. “I am very happy with my current situation back in the United States and I still have a lot to do there. I played my part back home and I still have a part to play where I am. “There are a lot of upcoming coaches who I think need a chance to showcase their potential. At the moment I am not coming back home soon as I believe we need to give each other chances and it is time I give others a chance,” said Ndlovu.