The Herald Talent Chimutambgi Arts Reporter A song composed by Yasmine Zahir, a female Chinese law practitioner from Hong Kong more than a decade ago to promote peace in Zimbabwe has become more relevant than ever, before. The song was composed in 2011 when Yasmine was a law student and was presented to the Ministry of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services when the songstress visited Zimbabwe during that year. The song also demonstrates and enhances the all weather good diplomatic relations between Zimbabwe and China which dates back to the time of the liberation struggle. Yasmine’s song “Runyararo” which was composed in Shona befits well with the contemporary times when President Mnangagwa is making clarion calls for peace in the country ahead of the 2023 harmonised elections. The elections are expected to be peaceful as the Second Republic commits to the values of democracy. The six-minute song carries a great teaching in uniting Zimbabweans and shunning violence. The song is so relevant especially now when the country is implementing a plethora of developmental projects facilitated by a peaceful environment prevailing in the country. “Runyararo” is loosely translated as peace which the song eloquently sees as the vital component to development and regarding Zimbabwe as a tranquil and beautiful country where both flora and fauna aid the country’s good looking. “Peace, peace, we love peace because violent conflicts do not help in the development of the country. Differences in views does not mean that we are enemies,” says part of the lyrics. “Let’s preach love and tranquility, let’s preach love the whole of African continent.” Yasmine was driven by the hospitality and loving nature of local people and saw it well to compose a song as a tribute to the Zimbabwean nation. A local music producer, Forward Mazurutse helped the young songstress to translate the song into Shona. Father to the musician, Muhamad Zahir  flew from Hong Kong in 2011 to present the disc insisting that he was charmed by the real situation in Zimbabwe which was a direct contrast to the portrayal by the Western media.