The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter INTER Harare Academy graduate Alexander Mandinyenya believes joining  newly-promoted Castle Lager Premiership football side Simba Bhora will give him an opportunity to take his career a step further. The Mbare-born 18-year-old striker joined Tonderai Ndiraya’s ambitious side which gained promotion into the Premier Soccer League from Northern Region Division One last season.  Mandinyenya is part of a long list of players who have joined Ndiraya’s ambitious side on a two-year contract. He was given a run by former Harare City coaches Taurai Mangwiro and Herbert ‘’Jompano’’ Maruwa for their last game of the season against Highlanders at the National Sports Stadium back in November last year and he managed to score a brace. The teenage striker had made his Premiership debut against Triangle. He marked his maiden season in the domestic topflight football league with two goals against Highlanders that made him an overnight sensation and a prime target for scouts and coaches. However, it was Ndiraya who has shown so much faith in young players in the last few years, who captured the signature of the raw diamond. The teenage striker was excited by the move, and remains hopeful that, when selected to play for Simba Bhora during the forthcoming 2023 season, he will seize the opportunity to announce his arrival in top-flight football. “I am very excited to have joined another Premier League side Simba Bhora who have offered to give me an opportunity. I am looking forward to a good season and take every opportunity that I get to score goals. “Joining Simba Bhora is a big step for me. I am more than happy and I am looking forward to a successful season with the team. “My target is to score as many goals as I can for the team. Coming from an academy, it is my belief that the chance will give me exposure and make sure that I develop into a top player. I am grateful to my former coaches at Inter-Harare who have faith in me and pushed me all the way,” he said. Mandinyenya joins a Simba Bhora strike force that comprises of Tinashe Balakasi and another recent loan signing from FC Platinum, Nigerian Abubakar Temitope Onifade. Inter-Harare FC director Reuben Dauti hailed Mandinyenya’s move to Simba Bhora, saying he is a young player full of potential. Dauti, who coached Mandinyenya from the age of seven, is happy that the young forward is about to see his dream of becoming a professional footballer come true. Speaking after the teenager made his debut against Triangle after he had joined Harare City during the second half of the season last year, Dauti said the moment made him proud. “That moment made me proud when a boy I identified with my fellow coaches and groomed made his PSL debut for Harare City against Triangle six days shy of his 18th birthday. As Inter Harare, we have done a great job to develop the boy since the age of seven and we wish him all the best. “I am happy for Mandinyenya for joining another Premier League team, Simba Bhora, after making his Premiership debut at the end of the season, last year. Mandinyenya is a very good player who is capable of making it big in his career. “The young man is very disciplined and if he keeps his head down he will go very far,” said Dauti.