The Herald Crime Reporter Three suspected carjackers were arrested after a stolen vehicle they were using got stuck in the mud in Southlea Park, Harare, where they were allegedly scouting for homes to rob on Tuesday. Investigations have revealed that the suspects were also terrorising the Harare Central Business District and its surrounding areas targeting parked vehicles where owners would have stopped either for shopping or dropping off something. In most cases the vehicle owners would either leave their vehicles idling with keys on ignition or with unlocked doors and the three would strike and disappear. Takudzwa Jongwa (21) of 1730 Area D, Westgate, Harare, Rodwell Zvomuya (28) of 1527 Southlea Park, Harare and Mufaro Bezvo of 2769 Southlea Park, Harare were arrested by the Criminal Investigation Department’s Vehicle Theft Squad for four cases of theft of motor vehicles. CID spokesperson Detective Assistant Inspector Rachel Muteweri confirmed the arrest. “It was after an outcry of cases of theft of motor vehicle where parked vehicles were being targeted. Victims would visit the Police Station in tears and at some instances with the shock in veins that they would be in possession of their car keys and wondering how the vehicle disappeared. These cases went for a while undetected and as a result a team was set, specifically to deal with such a particular crime. “On analysing the mode of operation employed by the perpetrators, it was established that all the stolen vehicles were recovered intact or slightly cannibalised. Inferences were drawn that the accused persons were either using the stolen motor vehicles to commit other crimes such as robbery or as getaway car to ferry their loot after unlawful entry and theft,” she said. She said on Tuesday, the three suspects were arrested while on a mission to commit unlawful entry cases in Southlea Park using one of the stolen vehicles, a black Honda Fit (AFZ 1970). “As they were on surveillance before pouncing on their target their vehicle got stuck in mud in an unnamed road in Southlea Park, Harare. The three accused persons tried in vain to push the vehicle prompting them to engage members of the public to help them push the motor vehicle. An alert member of the public who was offering assistance to the criminals observed some dangerous weapons inside the motor vehicle and alerted the police. “Immediately, a message was relayed to the CID Crack Team who were on patrol and they swiftly reacted to the information which resulted in the arrest of the three accused persons. Upon their arrest, detectives conducted some searches in the motor vehicle and recovered an assortment of dangerous weapons including an axe, knives, catapult, bolt cuter, iron and claw bars and also four sets of Honda Fit ignition keys,” Detective Asst Insp Muteweri said. Investigations by the detectives later established that the three were on a mission to commit housebreaking cases within the residential suburb of Southlea Park. It was also discovered that the recovered Honda Fit ignition keys belonged to four vehicles which were on the stolen vehicle list. The three then led the police to the recoveries of all the vehicles which they had abandoned in different locations around Harare. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police would like to proffer its gratitude to members of the public for the support they are rendering to the police in the fight against crime. We continue to urge members of the public to supply any information that may help in the fight against crime. We promise that their information will be put into good use as evidenced by the arrest being made by the Police,” Detective Asst Insp Muteweri said. The three will appear in court soon.