The Herald DHAKA. — The ninth season of the Bangladesh Premier League (BPL) will start from today. Zimbabwean cricketer Sikandar Raza reached Dhaka on Tuesday night ahead of the BPL. The next day, his team Rangpur Riders played a warm-up match against Khulna Tigers. The bowling coach of Rangpur Riders, Mohammad Rafique, praised his professionalism. According to him, Bangladeshi cricketers will do well by learning from him. Rangpur bowling coach Rafique couldn’t help but appreciate Raza’s professionalism. The former spinner of the Bangladesh national team faced the journalists after the warm-up match. About Raza, Rafique said, “He certainly gave what we expected from him. He came last night, didn’t get any rest. But today he played great. What we expected (from Raza).” According to Rafique, Bangladeshi cricketers will learn from Raza’s professional behaviour. “Look what professionalism is. You can see it. He came straight from the airport to the field. See how he performs. This proves Raza is a professional player. And the players who will be with him will learn a lot from here. This is why BPL is in Bangladesh. So we can see good cricket from here. The country’s cricket will be good.” Rangpur won the warm-up match. Khulna’s batting weakness was visible. Khulna were bowled out for just 87 runs at the start. In response, Rangpur Riders won the match with 9.3 overs and 7 wickets in hand. The ninth season of the Bangladesh Premier League (BPL) is going to start from today. The teams have started preparing for the tournament in full swing. Zimbabwean all-rounder Raza will play for Rangpur Riders in this year’s BPL. Last year was great for Raza. He played well for Zimbabwe in the last T20 World Cup. Apart from that, there was an extraordinary performance throughout the year. And due to great performance, calls are coming from different franchise leagues of the world. Raza faced the media after he came to play in the BPL. Raza spoke of the five stalwarts of Bangladesh cricket as a role model for the youth. He believes that Bangladeshi youngsters will become big stars by learning from experienced cricketers like Mashrafe Bin Mortaza, Tamim Iqbal, Shakib Al Hasan, Mushfiqur Rahim, and Mahmudullah Riyad. In response to the question of what can be the inspiration for the young cricketers of Bangladesh, Raza said: “There’s nothing I need to say because the motivation has to come from within. If you’re not motivated enough to represent your country and to do well, then nobody can motivate you.” He added: “And if they are looking for someone to guide them, then there’s Tamim, Shakib, Mushi, Mashrafe, Mahmudullah. They are the five pillars of Bangladesh cricket, in my opinion. And I think those five seniors can really guide the youngsters, which they have been. A lot of the youngster you’re seeing now performing have been under the leadership and the guidance of all those five senior cricketers. So before they listen to me, I strongly advise them to look for those five people.” — bcdcrictime.com. 