The Herald Fashion 263 Ballet pumps are back! Yes, that’s right. The trend you so desperately hoped would stay behind in the noughties, is back and there’s no escaping it. However, it’s 2023 and of course, we’re going to keep it chic and stylish unlike how we wore it way back then. Here are five tips on how to style the now-trendy ballet pumps without looking like you’re stuck in 2001. Opt for cropped jeans Do you live in your jeans and love your new ballet flats? Then opt for cropped, straight-leg jeans to show them off. If jeans are not your thing but do enjoy wearing pants make sure that it hits just above your ankle bone. Leave the skinny jeans and pumps combo behind in 2000. Keep your dress or skirt length longer Unless you’re 13 years old, stay clear of pairing ballet pumps with a mini skirt. Opt for a long-flowing maxi skirt or dress instead. Mid-lengths work even better though. Because then you can show off the show and keep it classy. Change it up with a pointed-toe flat If you really want to take a giant leap away from the noughties style, then opt for a pointed-toe ballet flat. They are great if you want to elevate a very casual look and give it a more polished look. Of course, you can keep it simple in solid tones, but that’s so 2002. In 2023 look out for flats with lace-up, jewel-studded or feature chains. Fabric like satin or velvet make for a dramatic change from leather. On to the wedding trends to look out for in 2023 . . . The fact that my social media feeds are flooded with wedding posts is a sure indication that it’s peak wedding season. From cosy, at-home weddings to more over-the-top affairs, bridal couples clearly have their fingers on the pulse of what is trending right now. Gone are the days when you leave a wedding with a small slice of a wedding cake. Now you’re more likely to head home with a new house plant! A wedding is made up of so many elements. From the wedding gown to the decor, the flowers to the wedding cake, one has to keep up with what’s trending. Here are four wedding trends to look out for in 2023. House plant decor Indoor plants are all the rage right now. People are creating jungles in their lounges! So it’s no surprise that the trend will flow over into other decor scenes. This is the decor trend for all the plant moms out there. As well as being a far more sustainable solution to using cut flowers. Giant over-the-top cakes are back “I had one wedding with a five-foot buttercream confection covered in dried flowers. We served it with big scoops of vanilla ice cream late at night with pizza and espresso martinis,” wedding planner Rebecca Gardner told Vogue Magazine. “Our clients are embracing the opportunity to personalise their cakes to match their wedding design, and the options for customising the wedding cake are endless. ‘‘Our favourite personalisation for the cake is the cake topper. Clients can have fun with this by adding their furry pets or keeping it simple,” said wedding planner Bryan Rafanelli. Colourful gowns According to Pure Wow last year billowing sleeves, detachable skirts and sheer fabrics were trending at 2023 Bridal Fashion Week. But more striking was the use of colour among designers. From vibrant floral prints fashioned by Monique Lhuillier to baby blue silk seen at Ines Di Santo, 2023 wedding fashion is playful and unexpected. Mismatched bridesmaid dresses Say goodbye to the “one size fits all” bridesmaid’s outfit idea. Mismatched bridesmaid dresses are trendy wedding dress fashions and a great way for your bridesmaids to express themselves. Mix up the colours so that everyone looks unique on your big day. Another great idea is to have each bridesmaid wear different dress lengths or coloured shoes. — iolnewscom