The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter KUDAKWASHE “Take Money” Chiwandire says challenging for a global belt away from home is not much of a challenge. The World Boxing Council super-bantamweight interim champion is scheduled to wrestle for the WBC gold belt against holder Yamileth Mecardo of Mexico in the North American nation in March. Her handlers, Delta Force Academy, announced yesterday that they had agreed on the modalities of the bout following months of protracted talks. The full contract was expected to be forwarded by Mercado’s camp last night. Chiwandire qualified to be the mandatory challenger for the WBC  world championship after her successful defence of the interim belt against another Mexican, Zulina Munoz, in Harare on October 14 last year. But she knows she has a lot of work to do in the gym if she is to match Mercado and possibly win the coverted stripe. Chiwandire has some good memories fighting away from home though. She first won the interim title after outwitting Zambia’s Catherine Phiri in Lusaka in February last year in a contest she was the underdog. And she can’t wait to go full throttle against Mercado in her own background. “To be honest that fight will be tough considering the experience that Mercado has under her belt. “I will also be fighting away from home where I am driven by a huge support base,” said Chiwandire. “But I am a sportsperson. I know what this fight entails. “Whether I will be away or at a neutral venue, the job still needs to be done inside the ring. “It’s a tough match given what it carries. I am eager to go out there and represent my country with pride. I am in the middle of preparing for the fight. “I need to be at my best fitness-wise. I am busy in the gym and in the ring to try and perfect my act. “I went to Zambia where I faced a tough test against Catherine Phiri given I was fighting away from home. But I came out tops at the end of the day. So, I mean, I can still beat anyone even if I will be fighting away from home.” Delta Force Academy director, Clyde Musonda, who is also Chiwandire’s coach/manager, said Chiwandire will go into camp in the next few weeks until they leave for Mexico. The boxer will also go for sparring in Zambia and South Africa next month. “We are not leaving anything to chance. “Chiwandire will be in camp in the next few weeks until we go to Mexico for the fight,” said Musonda. “We have also arranged for sparring in Zambia and South Africa. “We are engaging sponsors right now so that we can have the resources to enable her to go for sparring in Zambia and South Africa. “We have already talked to the boxers in both Zambia and South Africa and they have agreed to the deal.” Chiwandire has previously practiced against South African boxers, courtesy of funeral services company Zororo Phumulani which is powered by Doves Holdings Zimbabwe.