The Herald Sports Reporter THE dream reunion is coming to reality by the day. Star midfielder Denver Mukamba is expected to complete his return to Dynamos today after spending a week training with the club. It is now highly likely that the lanky midfielder will seal a deal after he reportedly impressed new coach Hebert “Jompano” Maruwa. “He has been training with us. But for now I cannot comment anything further. We are still assessing him. Maybe by tomorrow we will know what the status is exactly,” said Maruwa. Dynamos are currently beefing up their squad ahead of the 2023 season. They have since roped in striker Nyasha Chintuli on a season’s loan deal from Tenax and Soccer Star of the Year finalist, Eli Ilunga from Black Rhinos. The Glamour Boys, who announced they were parting ways with 13 players earlier this month, have since signed 23-year-old winger Keith Madera,  Arthur Musiiwa, Tendai Matindife, Emmanuel Ziocha, Tanaka Shandirwa and twins Elvis and Kevin Moyo. Dynamos supporters, however, are divided on the prospects of Mukamba’s return, considering his disciplinary record. The 2012 Soccer Star of the Year recently parted ways with Ngezi Platinum Stars, along with the likes of Last Jesi, Anelka Chivandire, Mandlenkosi Mlilo, Junior Zindoga, Derek Bonnah and Issa Ali. Mukamba was released through a mutual termination with a year remaining on his contract. The former Zimbabwe international midfielder told The Herald that life has to go on and is now angling for a return to the club that helped build his profile some 10 years ago.  Mukamba believes he is now more experienced and still has what it takes to deliver quality performances in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League. “There were one or two issues at the club but in life, you have to move on. I don’t know why they released me. I was not expecting it,” he said. “I believe I still have what it takes and am looking forward to playing for a top club again. I am training and preparing for the new season. My legs can carry me for the next five years, playing at top-flight level.” Mukamba has earned a tag as the local league’s bad boy, due to his wayward behavior which led to the acrimonious separation with both Dynamos and CAPS United previously. But former Young Warriors coach Rodwell Dhlakama managed to help the midfielder reform and concentrate on his football again at Chapungu United and then at Ngezi Platinum Stars. “I know I have my faults and sometimes I make mistakes but some of the talk is just pub talk. People always think the worst of me and some of the things are not true at all,” said Mukamba. Mukamba began his career at Kiglon before joining Dynamos in 2011, winning Rookie of the Year in the same year. He managed to win two league titles and two Mbada Diamonds Cups with the Glamour Boys under Callisto Pasuwa. Dynamos have not won a major silverware since 2014 and they are hoping to end the drought this year.