The Herald Crime Reporter Police have intensified investigations into a case in which a 34-year-old Harare man was last week found dead with a deep cut on the neck at his house in Bluff Hill. The man is suspected to have been cut on the neck by a yet unknown suspect who apparently used a kitchen knife. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi confirmed the incident saying investigations  were continuing. “Police in Harare are investigating circumstances surrounding a case of murder where Trymore Nyanhi (34) was found dead on January 18, 2023 at a house along Lavenham Road, Bluff Hill, Westgate. “The body was found lying in a pool of blood with a deep cut on the neck. A kitchen knife was found beside the body,” he said. Meanwhile, police in Harare are appealing for information which may assist in identifying a female adult aged approximately 40 who was found dead in a maize field near Granville (Mbudzi) Cemetery last Wednesday. A head injury was noted on the body. On Friday, a Kadoma man is believed to have been murdered before his body was placed across a railway line where it was run over by a locomotive. Asst Comm Nyathi said: “Police in Kadoma are investigating circumstances surrounding a case of suspected murder in which Takesure Samwari (21) is suspected to have been murdered before his body was placed across a railway line at the 440 km peg along Machipanda-Dabuka Railways, Mainline, Kadoma. “The body was run over by a locomotive on January 20, 2023 and was found with a deep cut on the head. Anyone with information should to report at any nearest police station,” he said. Police are also looking for a suspect, Tongai Ruzvezve (39),who allegedly struck his estranged wife and her younger sister with an axe at Muchemwa Village, Mamina, Mhondoro on January 19. Meanwhile, police in Zvishavane are investigating circumstances surrounding a shooting incident in which a 27-year-old man was shot on the stomach and injured by an unknown suspect, while walking along a strip road with a friend near Dadaya High School on January 20. The complainant is admitted at a local hospital in Zvishavane.