The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter NEWLY-PROMOTED Northern Region Division One Soccer League side Moor’s World of Sport are both excited and concerned. The club have made it clear they are not in the First Division for comfort, but they want to proceed into the Premier Soccer League at the end of the season. Not only that, they want to win the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League and represent the country in the CAF Champions League. And their president Patrick Tamson is scratching his head over the country’s current FIFA suspension. Zimbabwe is suspended from partaking in international football activities with FIFA demanding the reinstatement of the Felton Kamambo-led board as the only condition under which they will readmit the country into their family. And Tamson told reporters on Saturday on the sidelines of their coach unveiling ceremony that the FIFA suspension is doing no good for the country’s footballing aspirations. “Hopefully, the ban will be lifted sooner than later. “It has affected football to a greater extent, lives have come to a standstill. “It’s like the Covid-19 of Zimbabwean football at the moment,” said Tamson. “The game is locked inside, no one can go out”. He outlined that his team was not in Division One to add numbers. Their home ground, Ngoni Stadium in Norton, is currently under refurbishment as the team eyes to play their games in the dormitory town. “Since we have been promoted from Division Two, our major target now is to move on to the Premier Soccer League. “We are not going to just add numbers in Division One but we are going to try and win it in our first season. “We have already made a lot of investment into this project; currently our home ground, Ngoni Stadium in Norton, is being renovated to meet the Division One and also the Premier League standards. “We are retaining most of our players who helped us get promoted into Division One and we are also going to invest in more youngsters,” he said. Tamson revealed that the team, nicknamed “The Punters” given MWOS is a sports betting entity, will recruit at least three new players to help add steel to their team ahead of the 2023 season. “Our technical team has already started combing for at least four new players who will help us meet the demands of Division One football. “We are not going to look into players who have played Premiership football before. There is vast talent across the lower divisions and that’s where we intend to get our new recruits from. “We are giving the team to the punters, it’s their team. “The punters are the ones who are going to own this team because they are the ones contributing to its existence. “So it’s only prudent that we win promotion into the Premier League so that the owners of the team, who are the punters, can enjoy watching the team from across the country.” They will be led by former CAPS United player Wonder Ngoko who refused to talk to the media. Ngoko has accumulated some experience coaching in the First Division but his CV is not yet fully decorated. But Tamson has thrown his weight behind him saying he is the right man to take MWOS to another level. “Wonder Ngoko is one of the most experienced and one of the best guys whom we recruited out of the lot who applied for the same job. “He is the one who helped Makwiro Platinum (now Ngezi Platinum Stars) get promoted into the PSL. “He has been with Come Again as well so this is someone who has accumulated a wealth of experience coaching at this level.”