The Herald Arts Reporter Award winning gospel musician Everton Mlalazi is on cloud nine after his spiritually uplifting song “Nomakunje” featuring South Africa outfit Ladysmith Black Mambazo was endorsed a triumph. The song was released on New Year’s Day as part of a gift to his fans, to start 2023 with encouragement, hope, love and faith. Already the song which has visuals has attracted overwhelming response from fans and is doing well on social media platforms with more than 1 000 views since uploaded. Local socialites and celebrities have been sharing the song on their social media as they endorsed it. The song was a live recording set up on a decorated built up stage in South Africa. In an interview with The Herald Arts, Mlalazi said he was humbled working with the Grammy Award winning group LadySmith Black Mambazo. “Working with Mambazo taught me how to work in humility. They don’t talk that much, they let their work speak for themselves. These guys are five Grammy award winners and have travelled the whole world sharing their gift, it’s something one can only dream of,” he said. “The song is meant to encourage and give hope to those on the verge of losing hope. Again working on the song was amazing and everything went according to plan. The chorus was rearranged and given new life by Nigel Nyangombe and myself.” Commenting about how 2022 has been and his music, Mlalazi said his aim was to share the good news of hope and salvation to the whole world and God willing we shall achieve this. “Since my solo journey commenced in 2020, we have seen the hand of God. In 2022, we saw the release of songs like Bambelela, Ndokutewera and Nyashadzashe. All the songs had good airplay and topped charts.” “2022 also saw the recording and release of one of the most wonderful productions of our time, The Vine — The Great Physician recording which released hits such as Nyang’ Enkhulu, Great Physician, Imbirai Jehovah, Ndimi Simba and Pass me not oh gentle savior,” he said. He said was happy with how his brand has taken him so far and what he has achieved for a short period of time. “We also saw the EM brand taking its tour from the Harare, Sinach Concert, the Bulawayo homecoming concert, the Zambia Travis Greene Concert, the South African (Sandton) Great Physician Concert and finally the Nigeria Sinach Christmas Concert to cap a busy yet fulfilling year in ministry.” “We also launched the Worship Therapy band which is the resident band and vocalists for the EM Brand. It was an eventful year in which we learnt a lot and we believe it’s been that season of growth and learning. 2023 is exciting and will see us release our second album entitled, “In The Presence 11 (ITP11) -God’s Grace” To our fans we want to say thank you for supporting us, and your support encourages us to remain working.”