The Herald Never Matata The anti-United States sentiment is growing by each second that passes, throughout the world. This is fact not fiction. But the same cannot be said about China and Russia. They are actually gaining nice reputation and attracting good comment. The Washington administration, forever arrogant, dismissive, combative and confrontational to any independent country that tries to do its own thing differently, can ignore the growing anti-sentiment at its own peril. The blatant abuse of sanctions and the sponsoring of regime change movements as well as killing of millions of innocent people in wars abroad, has turned US into a rogue state that cannot be trusted. The other biggest problem for US is trying to be the self-appointed policeman of the world. Here is a self-acclaimed proponent of democracy, good governance and democracy who is doing exactly the opposite of that it preaches. When human rights records are talked about, US should be mentioned as the number one country in the negative index. When murder of innocent civilians is mentioned, US should be mentioned as the biggest killer: from Afghanistan to Iraqi and Libya, among others, its hands drip with blood. Where breaches of democracy are talked about, US should be talked about as the worst, given its propensity to sponsor regime change and impose unilateral sanctions, without following UN statutes. US is the biggest dictator of the world. If you don’t listen to it, you get punished with sanctions and regime change. Where plunder of natural resources is talked about the US is number one, it sponsors regime change as a way of unseating Governments and gaining access to natural resources. When it comes to deceit, US are the masters, saying one thing today and the opposite the next day. Look at how Ukraine is promoting Nazism and the US is busy pumping billions of dollars to defend Ukraine. Ukraine reneged on the Minsk agreement and US does not care. What double standards? What hypocrisy? How uncouth? Very, very, very irresponsible. The world has been watching how USA has been trying to destroy other super powers like Russia and China so that it remains unipolar and run the world. The good thing is that US is failing to archive this, even as it enters proxy wars. But people are no longer stupid. They now know the US as a devil preaching sanctity. They now know the US as a devil running away with the Bible. They know USA as the evil one. This strong sentiment against the US should worry the Washington administration. It is failed diplomacy. It is failed international politics. Russia and China are striking the right code. US should see it and change. It must remove all sanctions from little Zimbabwe to Russia. They are counterproductive. Cruel! l Never Matata is a political scientist based in Brussels, Belgium. He write in his personal capacity.