The Herald Latwell Nyangu-Youth Interactive Writer Warm wishes on New Year to all my fellow students! Every New Year is like the beginning of a new chapter and therefore, we must make the most of it and January 1st is not the only day of the year we should be initiating resolve, but it certainly presents us with an opportunity for an enthusiastic start. A New Year gives us all a chance to achieve whatever we could do in the last year but as I write this to you, we need to properly plan. Some of us as students want to remain just mere, we are too straitjacketed to the extent that we leave our homes, go to college, go back home, change our clothes, eat food, sleep. We use the same road every day, talk to the same people, sit on the same chair, don’t ask, are always too serious, and don’t participate in class. The same happens the next day and we remain the same. At times I wonder kuti mamwe mastudents anomboita nezvei chaizvo but we ought to show that we have what it takes, we need to change and show signs of exploration. Some students cannot be classified because they can’t, they are too reserved, confined, and stay in their shells. Don’t be known for one thing. Fellow students, in 2023, lets gear up and be more than just ordinary students who are only assignment focused. There are some students who are satisfied by just writing assignments, end of semester exams, sitting in class and that’s all. They are in their comfort zone that going outside the box is none of their business. Don’t be too ordinary, the world we are living in doesn’t require such weak students. One of the years, I was pained to lose an overall best student award at college after I was regarded as too ordinary yet I had scored many distinctions in a class of over 50 students. I was the best but not the best and the development left me challenging myself that there is more than just being a student who goes to college, writes an assignment and goes back home. Fellow students, there is no sugar in our comfort zone and no wonder why we remain just students rather than being extra ordinary students. I have realised that, there are some students who get attachment while still at college, while some never get proper attachment. Some get employment before finishing their industrial attachment. That’s being extraordinary. Just a recap, my observations when we clocked 365 out of 365 days on December 31, last year, I saw many regrets from fellow students who missed their opportunities due to some different circumstances. Some even changed plans towards their academic journey while some quitted although I believe that quitters never win. Fellow students, if you are reading this in 2023, God has given you another chance, celebrate that achievement. Some of us failed to make it, some are on oxygen pipes just to breathe but you are up there fit and raring to go. Give thanks for that alone, fellow student and as we begin this new journey, planning is detrimental as we take on a new lease of life in 2023. This is another chance to correct our errors, another chance to shift focus if you are a student. Most colleges and schools are opening this coming week. Lest we forget that failing to plan is planning to fail. For most of us, we often plan and fall short of these plans. But reflect on how many things you achieved in the previous year. Fellow students, a New Year gives us all a chance to achieve whatever we could do in the last year. Many times, we cry foul after we fail to achieve what we always yearn for. By failing to plan, you are preparing to fail and it is also similar to what Winston Churchill said, ‘he who fails to plan is planning to fail.’ If you are a college student, the new year can present a time of hope and growth, propelling you towards a more positive academic year and a more enjoyable college experience. The trouble with many plans we have as students is that they are based on the way things are now but to be successful, your personal plan must focus on what you want, not what you have. Dear fellow student, the core premise behind a New Year’s resolution for us as students should include developing stronger personalities, maintaining good physical and mental health, studying proficiently, thinking outside the box, always being eager to learn and gather new knowledge that must be assimilated into personally, academically, or professionally livelihood of a student. The beginning of a new year brings a number of fresh goals, innovative accomplishments, and even unique inspirations into your life. For 2023, if we want to prosper in the educational setting, we should not only concentrate on educational goals but also plan for personal endeavours that could improve our skills in every conceivable field. I hope that the coming year brings to you more strength and more dedication and may you be able to achieve all your goals with your commitment and hard work. They say the harder the chase, the sweater the catch, Asi chikoro chinorwadza mukazogara but it takes dedication and your all. Dear students, may 2023 bring along new hopes and new opportunities, may you learn from your past mistakes and accomplish your targets for the future with your strength and dedication. No lesson is difficult once you start reading it, no goal is difficult to accomplish once you start working hard for you. All you need to do is take the first step. May this year, you take all the first steps you missed in the last year. The only winner is that person who says no surrender, who always fights the circumstances and challenges and works hard to get what he desires. Always remember that every problem has a solution and every child has a talent, may in this year, you work hard to solve all the problems you come across. Promise yourself to never give up and this year will be all yours. Successful are those who never give up to situations and problems, fellow students. We all have unmatched potential to do things that are impossible and explore your strengths in this year and enjoy great success in every phase of academic life. May God always bless you by helping you face all the challenges. May whoever you believe in guide you to achieve your academic desires. With lots of love, wish you a happy academic New Year!