The Herald Latwell Nyangu Youth Interactive Writer When we render service to two masters, the tendency is that we may develop more affinity for one than the other. Beginning life at college generates both excitement and anxiety for many reasons including the move, academic responsibilities, and meeting new people. For some, this apprehension is quickly overcome as we adapt to the new environment. But above all no matter what is written in the scripture, “man” or “servant”, the truth is that we humans are servants. Yes, all of us! If we are not servants of a person, so to say, then we are servants of our ambitions and desires. When we serve more than two masters, cater to more than one ambition, desire for more than one form of happiness, we subconsciously or even consciously, tend to compare. As a result of this comparison, we develop a sense of favouritism towards one, and eventually, the other one becomes something that is despised, or, even neglected, but we do it because we have to. And for fellow students, we remain servants of academic journey and we cannot be spared from this. Focus helps us to get started on something and sustain our attention and effort through its completion. Getting to university you are welcomed with a lot of experiments and there are things that we do not want to miscue as students, but at times we flop due to focusing on wrong things. Students’ resolutions remain hinged on education-related ambitions as well as personal achievements but serving many masters at a time has seen many of us lamenting over missed best opportunities. Most students start on a high and show signs of promises, running good races but falter along the journey. The reasons are that of serving many masters at a time. No one goes to college to fail but many at times we have fallen short of our goals due to serving many masters. Many times, I mostly want to compare education and love although education is education, love is love. Despite the two not on the same page, both have heart breaks and disappointments. If you fail at college you get disappointed and when love fails, you also get disappointed meaning both have matters of the hearts. We can’t argue that education aims at shaping behaviour in a desirable way, creating good citizens, bringing about all-round development of personality and evolving morally oriented human beings. Each and every man, woman, and child on this planet is devoted to one, maybe more, masters. A man may be a servant of his job, his highly-ambitious mindset to accumulate more wealth and fame. A woman may be a servant to her household chores and social gatherings, while a child is likely to be driven by his or her parents to be a servant of ambition, be enslaved to this race of being better than the others, to be good in both mathematics and art! However, while all of us have, knowingly or unknowingly, wilfully agreed to become a part of the servitude, if we are forced to choose one true master over the others, we will always, always, have this one master that will be preferred over the other(s). And this master for us students is education. Sadly, many of us are serving many masters at the same time. Previously I wrote a piece that we left home to change home but I am discovering that some of us left home to destroy homes. The issue is that we are serving many masters at a time and no one can serve two masters fellow students. I borrowed this part from Matthew 6:24, when Jesus states, “No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.” From this passage of Scripture, Jesus is telling us that we cannot have two masters. And my duty this week is to descend upon fellow students who are serving two masters at a time, it will be difficult for them to score the highest. Recently, the social media has been awash with different results where some students were showcasing their brilliance. The most trending one is Tadiwanashe Mavetera who scored 50 points at A Level. The most exciting part was that he put his concentration on books and the bible. To those who listened to his narration understood that, it’s about focus and determination that helped him score that big. At college it’s serving one master at a time which helps one to achieve their goals. The ultimate goal of academics is to achieve best results. When you are a student, you become a servant of academics but most of us are losing the plot by trying to serve many masters at a time. In some cultures, they say, fambira chimwe sadriver weambulance. The ambulance driver doesn’t ferry bodies, but critical victims of accidents or illness. The same applies to the journey of academics. If you pursue many ‘things’ you end up going astray. Like always, college is that pool which accommodates everyone who has different motives. I was having a conversation with my academic rascals that several students had failed in the last semester. And we looked into the reasons why some failed, our conclusions were that they were not focused on what they wanted to achieve. To confirm that, I am very sure that last semester, there were some students who were racing two masters at the same time. And they are busy nursing wounds or regrets of failing some modules. How painful it is to fail a module towards the finalization of the course. Rewriting is not a good way to tackle education at college since it takes one backwards. No students can serve two masters at time and achieve what they want unless they are magicians. My view can be seen by sceptics from a legal, logical, situational, and psychological point of view. Eliminate all other options and stick to your heart, your psyche. For legally it is possible to serve two masters, but psychologically, if put in a situation where we have to choose, our devotion will exceed one of them. No one can serve two masters at a time, fellow students!