The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter TINASHE Makanda has been handed another bite at the cherry at local Premiership football giants Dynamos. The 28-year-old, who arrived at the Glamour Boys in 2021, was one of the players who were expected to leave the club during this off-season period. But he has rather been given two more years to prove himself at the Harare giants. His agent ,Trust Nyambiya, who has been busy brokering deals for his expanding clientele base this month, confirmed the latest development. Makanda, who has not been reporting for training, joined the rest of the squad in their double sessions yesterday. “Tinashe Makanda’s initial contract with Dynamos expired on December 31 (last year). “But the team tabled another two-year offer which we have taken. Makanda has started training (with Dynamos) today (yesterday),” said Nyambiya. “We are happy he has sealed the renewal.” It is a surprise move by DeMbare given Makanda has been one of the most underwhelming performers at the club over the past two years. He has scored just ONE goal in two seasons although Dynamos played just 14 games in the Chibuku Super Cup in 2021 since the league had been suspended due to the Covid-19 menace. In fact, Makanda, who doesn’t have any assist under his belt at Dynamos, was part of the clueless strike-force which did duty for the Glamour Boys under coach Tonderai Ndiraya last season. The department, which had Alex Orotomal of Nigeria, Cameroonian Albert Eonde as well as Evans Katema plus Makanda, scored a single goal between themselves across all competitions. This is the department which let the Glamour Boys down in a season they could have easily won the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title. While his partners have all been shipped out, Makanda has survived the purge under new gaffer Herbert ‘’Jompano’’ Maruwa. The former Highlanders player will have to man-up and prove doubters who have expressed their dismay over his extended stay. Makanda played more than 18 games across all competitions last season scoring a single goal. With most of the deadwood finding their way out of the Glamour Boys, he was expected to leave as well. But Maruwa has his own way of doing business, given the courage he has shown in firing some of the most experienced players like former captain Patson Jaure and his vice Godknows Murwira. With the 2022 Soccer Star of the Year finalist Eli Ilunga having already joined the Glamour Boys and Rookie of the Year winner Jayden Bakare also believed to be on his way to DeMbare, Makanda could find himself surrounded by ideal players for him to sparkle. Former Manica Diamonds forward Nyasha Chintuli is also believed to have already penned a deal with Dynamos. Should that be true, Makanda will have to fight even harder to secure a playing berth given he will be competing with tried and tested personnel. J udging by recent form and status, Makanda will be the last in the pecking order but the speedster is not exactly short on quality, having gained some experience playing briefly in South Africa. There are also reports King Nadolo has also renewed his stay at the Glamour Boys who will be vying for the league title which they last won in 2014.