The Herald Youth Interactive Writer South Africa based Zimbabwean teen gospel musician Samantha Mundo is setting herself as an artiste to look out for in the new year. The 17-year-old who rose to stardom by being a curtain raiser at some of the gospel shows featuring establishedmusicians said that music has always been her passion. In an interview with the Youth Interactive, Samantha said that collaborating with seasoned musicians was her door to announce her arrival on the music scene. “I have a song with South African singer Mmatema and our collaboration showed me that no dream is too big for God as anything is possible,” she said. “I also have a song with Takesure Zamar and it was really good for my music journey because I learnt a lot during the course of making music together. He taught me to be a better musician.” Samantha said that studying music has always been the goal and having immense support from friends and family to pursue her dream has been the best so far. “Music has always been my greatest passion. “I had settled my mind and accepted that I do music as part time. My parents’ support boosted me a lot, too,” she says. Describing the experience on stage with big artistes such as Pastor Travis, Samantha said it was amazing and felt honoured. Asked how she started music, she said: “I started singing when I was seven years old. I realised that music is my passion and when I turned 13 my dad took me to a studio to record my first song called “Don’t worry” featuring yesteryear musician Betty Makaya. It was a nice experience and I enjoyed it.” The teenager said her role model was another female gospel musician namely Sharon. “My role model would be Sharon Cherayi and the reason I like her so much is that not only does she help me musically and vocally but she also guides me spiritually. “My music is inspired by situations happening around me and how I feel at that current moment. Sometimes it is also inspired by the artiste that I am working with,” she explained. Samantha said it has not been easy balancing music and school. “It is always difficult to stay focused but because my parents keep reminding me to stay grounded it is always easy to make sure I give 100 % in school and 100% in music,” she said. Advising her peers she said, “It is always good to stay passionate about your dream and if you are ever discouraged by people not believing in you. You should believe in yourself because God believes in you too,” she said. She said besides music she wants to be a lawyer. Samantha is working on an album to be released soon although her extended play is almost done.