The Herald London.  — Arsenal have competed the signing of Leandro Trossard from Brighton; the Gunners have paid an initial £20m with the deal potentially reaching £27m in add-ons. The Gunners are paying an initial £20m up front with a further £7m coming in add-ons. Arsenal and Mikel Arteta believe they submitted the registration paperwork in time for Trossard to be eligible to face Manchester United on Super Sunday The 28-year-old has signed a four-and-a-half-year deal with the option for a further year. “We are really happy to have him,” said manager Arteta in his pre-match press conference ahead of the United game. “He’s a player we have followed for a while now. The opportunity came and we have the necessity to have a player in the front line that is versatile enough to play in different positions. He knows the league, he has experience here and he can have an immediate impact in the team. “We have to think short term but also medium and long-term. He gives us all that. When you look at his career and what he’s done in the last few years he’s a player that fits our way of playing for sure.” Trossard will reunite with his former manager at Genk and Arteta’s assistant Albert Stuivenberg in north London, with Arteta revealing that his No 2 “gave me a good reference, not just now but for a good few years”. Meanwhile, speaking about the Arsenal coaching team, Trossard told the club’s website: “They told me they really like me as a player, that I would really suit the system and how they want to play. “It helps me that I’m versatile and that I can play in different positions. They’re looking forward to working with me and vice versa. I’m really excited to work with them and I think Mikel [Arteta] is a top coach. “I like to be in the pocket behind the striker. On the wings, I can explore myself as well. I’m comfortable in either of those positions but if I were to choose, behind the striker — but it all depends on the system. “This has been my best season in the Premier League until now. We did a great job at Brighton and my form has been really good. Obviously I haven’t played much since the World Cup since my situation [at Brighton] but I’m so excited to start at Arsenal and show myself at a top club to help the team.” Arsenal moved for the Belgium international after missing out on Mykhailo Mudryk, who joined Chelsea from Shakhtar Donetsk on January 15. 