The Herald Danai Chitakasha-Special Correspondent CAPS United, the team we all know as “Makepekepe, Cup Kings, Green Machine, Shaisa Mufaro”, mazita kupfekerana as Mukoma Choga Tichatonga was so fond of saying, is turning 50 this year. Formed in 1973, the team has contributed massively to the development of Zimbabwean football. Along the long journey, it has produced many great players who have dominated our football terrain. Can one be crazy enough to come up with the best CAPS United 11? Many will view it as a futile exercise, but there are many who have been brave enough to come up with one. One such submission was from die-hard CAPS United fan, Innocent Mupatsi. I found it interesting and decided to share it with you dear readers. It is not cast in stone, but I hope it can lead to a robust debate! Here we go! Goalkeeper: Brenna Msiska — I am convinced “Baba vaGari”, to use his given moniker, is arguably the best CAPS United goalkeeper of all time. He served the club with distinction between the posts and he was a great servant of the club. His battles with Moses “Bambo’’ Chunga and Vitalis “Digital’’ Takawira in the Harare Derby left us with great memories. Right-back: I will go with Edelbert Dinha — It was a very  difficult choice because David Sengu gave a good account of himself  but  “Phil Collins”, as Dinha was popularly known by the Green Machine fans, is for me the best right back to don the green jersey. Like one excited fan once  noted: “Eddie aichinja magear!” Left-back: Cephas Chimedza — He was an intelligent footballer and versatile. He impressed me with his runs down the left lane, tantalising crosses and he could pack hard shots. He had a cultured left-foot. Charles Johane and Kudzi Taruvinga came to mind but l settled for the man we all called “Mother” or “Mboma”. Centre-back: Tobias Sibanda — I did not think too hard on this one. I did not even think twice about this one. What a defender  “Tobhaya” or “Rock Steady” was. He would stick to a striker like glue and in one Harare Derby he managed to mark the red-hot Moses “Bambo’’ Chunga out of the game. That was no mean feat! Centre-back: Silver Chigwenje —  “Mari yakanaka Bhonzo”, served the club with distinction and was a good leader too. He was a fighter. Never gave up and gave everything for the club. He was captain fantastic! Defensive link: Lloyd Chitembwe — He was solid in this role and great son of the club. I have no doubt in my mind that he is the best defensive linkman to don the green jersey. Anthony Kambani also came into the picture but Lodza’s  longevity, ball artistry and vision were second to none. A skillful player who chose to stick to the basics and understood his role. I am not surprised that he is doing well as a coach. Right-winger: Stanley Ndunduma — “Sinyo” all day long, there is no contest. He could put a shift also in midfield. Yes, he didn’t last long but nobody wore that number 7 jersey for CAPS United better than “Moscow”. Attacking midfielder: Joel “Jubilee”, “Mwalimu”, “The Headmaster” Shambo — He was”Mr Caps United”. When his partners in ball artisary, Stanford “Stix’’ Mutizwa and Stanley “Sinyo’’ Ndunduma left to join Black Rhinos in the early 1980s, Shambo stayed on to guide the ship through choppy waters. For that he gained my utmost Respect! Attacking midfielder: Stanford “Stix” Mutizwa — For  me he is the  best Number 10 ever to wear the CAPS United jersey. He was simply a midfield maestro, a magician! Centre striker: Shacky “Chinyaride”, “Bere”, “Mr Goals”  Tauro — What more can l say? He was born to score goals and he did it with aplomb. Left winger: Alois “Gazza”, “Kris’s Kross” Bunjira — He was a lethal striker and an intelligent footballer. He had to content with Gift Mudangwe and Friday “Breakdown’’ Phiri but “Gazza” gets the nod because of his eye for goal and vision; and like “Sinyo’’, he could hold fort as a wide midfielder. SUBSTITUTES Joe “Kode from Mabvuku” Mugabe: Great servant of the club.  l know l will be “killed’’ by some for putting “Kode’’ on the bench . . . but tell me who should sit out Shambo, Chitembwe and Mutizwa. Stewart “Shutto’’ Murisa: “Shutto’’ played his best game at CAPS United and rightly deserved his place on the bench. It was one season but the boy gave us a season to remember and he sealed his name in my heart forever. Ian Bakala: Yes, for me the best foreign player to wear the CAPS United jersey. Yes, Kamwendo and Laughter Chilembe were up there but “Cabanana” was a marvel to watch. He made playing football look so easy. Hold, pass, move into space and shoot when necessary. For that he deserves a place in my team. Mpumelelo “Era Muna’’ Dzowa: Versatile and could play anywhere in defence and also as a linkman of note. Great servant of the club and dead ball specialist. A true professional who brought stability to our defence and never looked back for all the years he was at CAPS United. Energy “Gokwe’’ Murambadoro: Will be my reserve goalkeeper. He was a great shot-stopper and one of the best goalkeepers this country has ever produced. Abdul Karim came very close but l settled for Energy. Coach: Charles Mhlauri — He was a think-tank and an innovator. The way he allowed Cephas Chimedza to drift into midfield from his left back position was a signature innovative tactic which is now being used by the likes of Pep Guardiola and Mikel Arteta! What a tactician. Assistant coach: Norman Mapeza — He is a football thinker who believes in the passing game! Coming up with a best 11 CAPS United side over 50 years was never going to be easy but this is a commendable attempt by Innocent Mupatsi. My respect and allow me to say Long Live Caps United — Svikai paZana! Sisonke!