The Herald Joseph Madzimure-Senior Reporter ZANU PF National Political Commissar Cde Mike Bimha is embarking on a nationwide interactive meeting party affiliates to ensure they understand their role and the tasks lying ahead. Yesterday he met a number of party affiliated organisations in Hopely in Harare South where he challenged them to stand guided by the party virtues and values to ensure a resounding victory for President Mnangagwa and the party The meeting was organised by Young Women for Economic Development and Vapositori for ED Cde Bimha laid down the task lying ahead for them as they mobilise people to vote for President Mnangagwa as the party’s sole candidate. “Your task is to lure members who are not in the structures of the party. You should not come to us and claim members who are already in our structures. Whenever you have new members, they should be integrated in the party structures. “We don’t want affiliates who fish our members from our structures and claim them to be theirs” said Cde Bimha. “The party is targeting to mobilise more than 5 million members for President Mnangagwa and the party to ensure a resounding victory in the coming elections. The new members, he said, must be taught the values and virtues of the party and understand the good works being carried by the President. The meeting was attended by 17 affiliated organisation among them Economic Empowerment Group, Vapositori forED, Zliwaco Trust for ED, Trees for ED, maWindi for ED, Doctors for ED among others. The party has so far registered more than 60 affiliates. Young Women for ED chairperson Tatenda Mavetera said they are pushing for the empowerment of women and ensure no one is left behind in terms of economic development “We will be moving around the country as affiliates with the same of objectives of mobilising people to register to vote. We are not only talking about politics but also economic empowerment programmes initiated by President Mnangagwa. We want everyone to take part in the economy,” she said. Harare provincial party leadership also attended the meeting.