The Herald Ivan Zhakata Herald Correspondent CHIEF Justice Luke Malaba will on Monday officially open the 2023 Legal Year in Harare with other Constitutional Court judges and the Judge President of the High Court expected to preside over opening ceremonies in other provinces. The ceremonies will run under the theme, “Promoting competence and quality of service to enhance public confidence in the judiciary”. Deputy Chief Justice Elizabeth Gwaunza will preside over the event in Bulawayo while Justice Rita Makarau will preside in Masvingo, Justice Paddington Garwe in Mutare and Judge President Justice Mary Dube in Chinhoyi. Rehearsals for the event start today in Harare and in other provinces they will be begin on Sunday with the main event kicking off on Monday. JSC head of corporate services Mr Daniel Nemukuyu said the opening of the Legal Year was an annual event and preparations were at an advanced stage. “Preparations are almost done and we are doing the final touch-ups. We are entering the second phase of the Integrated Electronic Case Management System, starting February 1 this year, to follow the success of the launch of the programme in the Constitutional and Supreme Courts and Commercial Court. “The second phase will see the implementation go live in the Labour Court and Administrative Courts,” he said. Mr Nemukuyu said they were rolling out training programmes countrywide to ensure all current and potential court users register with the system to enable them to litigate in the two courts. He said from today, the Secretary of the JSC, Mr Walter Chikwana, and his team will travel to Mutare, Masvingo, Gweru and Bulawayo to speak to stakeholders, including lawyers, labour officers, employer associations, designated agents, trade unionists and members of national employment councils on the benefits of the IECMS, how it operates and how to register with it. “On January 6, the team will be at Mutare High Court to meet stakeholders at 2pm,” Mr Nemukuyu said. “The team proceeds to Masvingo where another meeting will be held. There will be instant registration of those who wish to have IECMS accounts. More awareness and educative programmes are lined up this month to ensure all people appreciate the new system, register with it and ultimately have access to justice.” In Harare, parts of Samora Machel Avenue, Sam Nujoma Street and Simon Muzenda Street will be closed today and on Monday from 9am to 2pm for the rehearsal and the event. In a statement, Harare City council acting town clerk Engineer Phakamile Moyo yesterday announced the temporary closure of the roads. “Alternative routes will be recommended by the use of informative signs and as directed by enforcement agents on site. Traffic approaching this area should do so with due care,” he said. The JSC is continuing its policy of ensuring courts are built and opened in more centres. After expanding the High Court, the commission is now constructing courts in high density suburbs with the aim of taking the justice delivery system close to where the bulk of people stay. Construction of Epworth Magistrates Court in Harare is at an advanced stage with more courts expected to be built in Glen Norah and Budiriro while in Bulawayo they will be established in Nkulumane and Entumbane.