The Herald RIYADH. — Cristiano Ronaldo has wasted little time in ensuring he and his family are royally received in their new homeland, MailOnline can reveal. The star striker, whose move to Saudi Arabia last week has made him a super-millionaire, is living in accommodation for a King that affords him the best view of the capital in the plushest of surroundings. The former Manchester United star who has signed for the largely unheralded Al-Nassr club in the Saudi Pro League with a package worth more than £400m, is staying in the Kingdom Tower, one of the tallest buildings in the country. He has been put up in one of the best suites that Riyadh can offer in one of 17 rooms occupied by his family, friends and security detail. The self-proclaimed GOAT hardly has to lift a finger as his every need is tended to inside the plush suite of the Four Seasons hotel where the best room sizes cover more than 3000ft. He has been booked into the giant-sized suite for a month and the Kingdom Suite, one of the best in the 99-story building, stretches to two floors. The cost of the hotel suite is not even listed on the hotel’s website and has to be booked privately as does the adjacent ‘’Royal Suite’’. But the smaller ‘’Presidential Suite’’ can be booked online and the cost for a night is a staggering £3 300 a night. It is estimated that the hotel bill for Ronaldo and his entourage will surpass £250 000 when he checks out and has found a permanent home for his partner Georgina Rodríguez and their five children. Until then they can enjoy the most spectacular views of the city and tuck into the finest food at their five-star temporary home. The hotel says of its Kingdom Suite: ‘Entertain guests with unparalleled views of Riyadh. Our newest two-storey suite spans the 48th and 50th floors of the Hotel, with a soaring living room, a private office, a dining room and a media room.’ Its ‘’Royal Suite’’ offers less space, but at 2 595ft it would still be bigger than most apartments in Britain, where Ronaldo twice lived during his stints with Manchester United. The hotel says the suite offers Panoramic views of Riyadh ‘’and its surroundings lend a unique sense of exclusivity to this versatile suite, which features an elegant dining room, pantry, living room and executive study.’’  To dine the Portuguese star can enjoy ‘’the best of dishes from China, Japan, India and the Middle East, with the freshest ingredients to order.’’ As an athlete, the 37-year-old player has to be careful how much food he consumes and keep an eye on the fats and calories. But if he wants to indulge a full fry up for breakfast or the hotel’s signature dishes which include sea bass, beef cutlets and many of the finest lamb and chicken dishes by top chefs for dinner are available to the footballer who describes himself as ‘’unique’’. Because of his celebrity status, chefs are providing an exclusive in-room dining service for Ronaldo and his family. Staff have been asked not to request selfies with the star, but he has been accommodating guests and their children and has been seen thanking hotel workers as he enters and leaves. The finest dining elsewhere in the Saudi capital has also attracted Ronaldo who on Saturday night visited Japanese restaurant Miyazo which offers ‘’contemporary cuisine driven by passion, for an opulent world and a creative lifestyle.’’  — Mailonline.