The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter THE ZIFA Northern Region Division One have released fixtures for the 2023 football season, which is expected to start on the weekend of March 18-19. The match between Golden Eagles and Herentals Under-20 headlines the first week of the league with a showdown encounter at Ellis Robbins. The two teams finished in second and third position respectively behind promoted Simba Stars. And they will renew their rivalry on the first weekend of the 2023 season as they battle for the sole ticket into the Premiership. According to the first-round fixtures released by the region, the 18-team league is expected to reach the halfway mark on June 18. The ZIFA Northern Region vice-chairperson Sweeney Mushonga said they have included two new venues from those earmarked for use by the six promoted clubs. A total of six clubs have been promoted into the Northern Region Division One, namely Moors World of Sport, ZRP Harare FC, FC Prison Stars, Omnia FC, Concession United and Shamva Mine. The new clubs are still working on improving their stadia. This follows the inspection by the ZIFA Grounds Committee that toured the venues to assess their suitability to host Division One football this season. The grounds committee managed to visit Ngoni stadium in Norton, Shamva Mine stadium in Shamva and lastly Dandamera stadium in Concession. However, they found out that the stadia did not meet the expected standards. Mushonga said the clubs had shown commitment to improving their infrastructure. “It was observed that the three stadia fall short of standards expected for Division One matches. The league communicated in no uncertain terms that no Division One matches will be sanctioned at the respective venues. The league went further and implored the teams to immediately start the necessary work to bring their facilities to the required standard. “It was very pleasing to note that all the concerned clubs showed commitment to improving their facilities in line with the recommendations from the committee,” said Mushonga. Mushonga also said some newly-promoted clubs will share the facilities with old clubs. “We have only picked two new venues, which we are sure will meet the set criteria. Ngoni Stadium is a work in progress and should be ready by the time the matches will kick-off in March. Wagadhungu needs some renovations and we will soon send an inspection team to assess progress to date. Omnia will share the stadium with Banket United. Shamva Mine will share with Simba Bhora at Wadzanai Stadium.  Concession United will use Trojan Mine Stadium together with Trojan Stars. ZRP Harare FC, will use Morris Depot Sports Stadium,” said Mushonga. Opening Fixtures Week One: Chegutu Pirates v Moors World of Sport (Pfupajena), Golden Eagles v  Herentals Under-20 (Ellis Robbins), Trojan Stars v Commando Bullets (Trojan Mine, Banket United v Black Mambas (Kuwadzana), Chinhoyi Stars v Omnia FC (Chinhoyi Stadium), ZRP Harare v Come Again (Morris Depot), Concession v FC Prisons (Trojan Mine), Shamva United v Karoi United (Wadzanayi), Ngezi Under-19 v Pam FC (Baobab). Week Two: MWOS v Shamva United (Ngoni), Chegutu Pirates v Concession United (Pfupajena), Trojan Stars v Chinhoyi Stars (Trojan Mine stadium), Omnia v Come Again (Kuwadzana), Black Mambas v FC Prisons (Morris Depot), Commando Bullets v Karoi United (2 Brigade), Herentals Under-20 v Ngezi Under-19 (Motor Action Sports Club), Pam FC v Banket United (Muriel Mine), Golden Eagles v ZRP Harare (Ellis Robbins).