The Herald LONDON. — Jude Bellingham is expected to turn down a double-your-money new deal when he meets Borussia Dortmund bosses this week. And that will officially kick-start the £100million-plus auction for the 19-year-old England midfielder, who is wanted by Liverpool, Real Madrid and both Manchester football clubs. Dortmund have a sit down planned with Bellingham over the next couple of days and want a swift answer on his plans. It is understood the Bundesliga outfit are prepared to make him the highest-paid player at the club, on around £180 000 a week, for a further five years. Yet Dortmund are equally aware Bellingham wants to test himself at a higher level, following his eye-catching performances at the World Cup. SunSport revealed this month that would-be buyers have been told they must pay 75 per cent of any total fee up front — with his former club Birmingham also due a cut. They are happy not to stand in Bellingham’s way if he does insist he wants to go, as long as he gives them an answer which gives them time to line up a replacement. Bellingham can expect to receive offers of around £300 000-a-week wages but the grounded teenager has always insisted will put his football progression before finances. That has raised hopes at Anfield that he will join them, with reports his father Mark has been talking to Jurgen Klopp’s side. The Merseysiders know they will be blown out of the water if it does come down to a bidding war. Meanwhile, Dortmund forward Youssoufa Moukoko signed a two-year contract extension with the club to 2026 yesterday after a long negotiation for the teenager to remain. The 18-year-old, who became Germany’s youngest World Cup player when he featured at the tournament in Qatar in November, has long been a target for several major European clubs. Moukoko enjoyed a strong first half to the season that led to his Germany call-up, having scored six Bundesliga goals and set up another three. Dortmund sports director Sebastian Kehl said: “Youssoufa is an exceptional player we have trained and in who we still see great development potential.” Moukoko, who has been at Dortmund since the age of 12, is considered among the most-gifted forwards of his generation, having become the youngest  Bundesliga scorer at 16. He said: “It is no secret that I feel well at Dortmund. “I played youth football here, took my first steps in professional football and now I am ready to take the next step in my development together with the club.” — The Sun.