The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS are solidifying their squad at an electrifying rate with new coach Herbert “Jompano” Maruwa keen to perfect his outfit ahead of the impending 2023 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season. Already the former Black Rhinos gaffer has made some mouth-watering signings using a US$60 000 war chest availed by club sponsors Sakunda Holdings. And the Glamour Boys are preparing to welcome probably their biggest arrival this transfer season in Wilmore Chimbetu who is joining from Herentals. Negotiations between the two Harare teams are at an advanced stage with the highly sought-after 24-year-old player likely to join his new teammates this week. The teams, of course, need to iron out some issues on whether Chimbetu will make a permanent switch or a loan move. The Herald can reveal that Herentals are not ready to dispose of one of their most valuable assets for good while the Glamour Boys have been pressing to get him permanently. What’s almost certain though is that Chimbetu will be at Dynamos this coming season. A source close to the negotiations said the utility player, who has spent most of his time playing right-back, is heading to Dynamos. “It’s a done deal so to speak. Wilmore Chimbetu is joining Dynamos in the coming days. The negotiations are almost complete now. The two teams were trying to find common ground whether the player would join on a permanent deal or on loan,” said the source. “Herentals want him to join on loan and that is the position right now unless something dramatic happens. But what I can definitely tell you is that Chimbetu will be at Dynamos in the coming days. “The coach Herbert Maruwa is an admirer of the defender and he is eager to bring him to the Glamour Boys.” Maruwa has since brought in defenders Donald Dzvinyai, twins Kelvin and Elvis Moyo to add on to those who were already there, including Frank Makarati, Emmanuel Jalai, Brendon Mpofu and Tinotenda Muringai. And Maruwa revealed last weekend that he was in search of a defender and a goalkeeper to be satisfied. “Yes, I still want to add more players. Probably I will add two more. Maybe one defender and a goalkeeper,” Maruwa said. “There are a lot of positives that I am picking from this group. I am working to address the flaws and enhance the strengths.” And Chimbetu could be the defender the gaffer was talking about over the weekend. Chimbetu, who is one of the most outstanding right-backs in the country, is likely to wrestle for a playing slot with Jalai whose work-ethic outweighs his limitations. Basically, Maruwa has made sure there are at least two players for each position. And for Chimbetu, the move will help him forget about the nightmare he endured in his aborted transfer to FC Platinum last season. It looked like the full-back, who is well at home playing as a striker, had sealed a move to the Zvishavane team until he returned to Herentals in a huff. The reason for the premature marriage remains a mystery and that didn’t take away anything from Chimbetu’s game once he settled back at the Students. He was one of the best players on show at Herentals, just like he was in 2018 and 2019. And Maruwa was charmed by Chimbetu’s abilities which he believes will add value to the Glamour Boys. Maruwa is refreshing the squad he inherited from Tonderai Ndiraya whose contract was not renewed at the end of last year. Ndiraya was at DeMbare from mid-2019 until his sacking and he has since joined Premiership newboys Simba Bhora as their head coach.