The Herald Blessings Chidakwa Arts Reporter Chisel, hammer, clay and bronze are currently at work, not for many purposes but the sole one of erecting a statue for Zimbabwe’s iconic national hero. When you do great things, your legacy will remain long even after you are gone. It will be preserved in numerous forms be it books, statues, music or even films. Whatever the form, the nature of life is that it always favours and remembers people that leaves an indelible mark on mother earth. Zimbabwe is no exception, priding itself in preserving some of its icons through statues among the notable ones include a bronze one for First Chimurenga heroine Mbuya Nehanda situated at the heart of the capital city, Harare. Others are the late Vice President and national hero, Dr Joshua Mqabuko Nyongolo Nkomo at the epicentre of the beautiful city of Kings and Queens, Bulawayo, Zimbabwe’s second largest city. Zimbabwe’s independence in 1980 did not come on a silver platter, but sons and daughters sacrificed their dear lives. Many were at the battle front during the first and second liberation struggles but the choice of leaders was always reserved for a selected few. Among the selected few there was the iconic national hero Cde Josiah Magama Tongogara. Work for his statue is currently underway. One of the world’s leading sculptors, David Guy Mutasa is man on the project, having been behind the chisel for more than 50 years. When his name is mentioned, many quickly remember him for his recent works of the Mbuya Nehanda Statue while others think of his Zimbabwe bird sculpture outside the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Mr Mutasa behind the work of the late Cde Tongogara’s statue yesterday said with the enormous support of President Mnangagwa and his administration the country should brace for more statues. “I have started work on the statue of the late national hero Cde Tongogara of course at my own pace since I have other pressing commitments. “However, it is work in progress and I expect to finish it this year. Cde Tongogara is our hero and his history cannot be literally forgotten, but should be ardently preserved,” he said. Mutasa said engagements are ongoing with the family of the late Cde Tongogara and the Government on where the statue will be erected. “The late national hero Zimbabwe National Army Commander Lieutenant General Edzai Chimonyo had approached me with the view that the statue should be erected at the army headquarters. “Since his demise I will have to engage further with the authorities on the issue,” he said. Mutasa said documentary of the country’s history should be preserved at all cost and a statue should be erected in each province cascading down to districts. “Imagine there are a lot of people flocking Rhodes’s grave in Matobos, there is no statue just pictures yet we have our own iconic heroes and heroines. “With time permitting I will erect more statues including that of founding father late President Cde Robert Mugabe, heroes Sekuru Kaguvi and Hebert Chitepo,” he said. Mutasa who does sculpt out of passion said the biggest chance to preserve history is now since some of the people directly involved mentally and physically are still living. A man of many faces from Rusape, a farmer, politician recently made history by becoming the first living artiste to be honoured for his immense contribution to the liberation heritage through captivating visual artworks. Mutasa was conferred with the Commendation Award. He is an artiste with a perceptible experience in bronze casting spanning 55 years that has earned him both wealth and recognition as the godfather of contemporary sculpture in Zimbabwe. Mutasa also did busts for the late national hero and Zanu PF chairman, Cde Herbert Chitepo, and another national hero, Cde Maurice Nyagumbo, a rich catalogue of liberation encryption that culminated in the conferment of the Commendation Award on him.