The Herald Ivan Zhakata-Herald Correspondent Space barons and the vendors they allow have re-invaded the Simon Muzenda Street bus terminus that handles the eastern bus routes into Harare city centre and have moved in empty cargo pallets, tables and even started rebuilding shacks to create moveable stalls that prevent buses and the tens of thousands of passengers from using large chunks of the terminus. Dealers in second-hand clothes form a large noticeable group, with their piles of used clothing stacked on the wooden pallets that have been trucked into the terminus and carefully placed by those identified as space barons, criminals who move into public spaces, create or take over market stalls and then rent these out to vendors. Now Harare City Council has given an ultimatum to space barons to vacate forthwith or risk being prosecuted. This comes as the city is battling space barons who were grabbing every available open space in the central business district before illegally subdividing it and renting out the tiny spaces or little plots to vendors. At the same time, a range of property owners across the city centre have been legally converting premises into proper markets, ranging from flea markets with small stalls to malls with a range of small shops. These tend to fill as soon as they open, and the large number is attracting bargain hunters into the city centre. The city council is now trying to fight back against the criminal space barons. In a statement, the council gave an ultimatum to the barons to vacate the illegally occupied spaces or risk having them removed by the council. “Council has noted with concern the invasion of Simon Muzenda Street bus terminus, formerly known as Fourth Street bus terminus, by space barons who are creating an illegal market,” council said. “The City is urging the space barons to remove their shacks before the council moves in to assist. “By this notice, members of the public and vendors are being urged not to pay anyone to use tables on the illegal market. “Only council officials are mandated to allocate vending spaces. Council recognises the important role played by the informal sector in the national economy, especially during this period when our country is facing macro-economic challenges.” Council said the informal sector was critical in income generation but there was a need to balance that with order and compliance with by-laws. The local authority is on record saying it has been losing millions of dollars to space barons and cartels within and outside council that has been pocketing millions of dollars from council markets depriving the city of much needed revenue. Some politicians have been conniving with council officials to deprive the city of revenue from Mupedzanhamo, Mbare Musika, Glen View Area 8 furniture complex and other markets in Highfield.