The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter CLOSE cricket rivals Zimbabwe and Ireland eventually had to share the ODI series 1-1 after rain wreaked havoc and caused the abandonment of the highly anticipated third and the final cricket match at Harare Sports Club yesterday. The Chevrons captain Craig Ervine and his opposite number Paul Stirling, who was standing in for injured Andrew Balbirnie, had both wanted to see a definite conclusion to this contest, which had been a close and entertaining affair from the start. Unfortunately, the match officials were yesterday left with no option but to call the game off after the on-and-off showers made it impossible to continue with play. Zimbabwe had won the toss and decided to bat first. But only 13 overs were played before the rain descended at the ground and caused a delay of more than four hours. The abandonment meant that the two teams shared the three-match ODI contest 1-1. Zimbabwe had won the opening encounter by three wickets last week but Ireland bounced back on Saturday with a deserved 76 runs victory that kept the series alive. “I think it’s a fair result,” said Ireland skipper, Stirling. “We are disappointed we didn’t go out there. It would have been a good game, I think. That was a very close series. “We always enjoy coming here and I think we have a really good close relationship with the Zimbabwe team, as well. It’s always brilliant cricket between the sides. “We go hard on each other on the field of play and off the field we enjoy sort of the same luxuries. So we love coming here and hopefully we will be back soon,” said Stirling. The hosts felt they needed to wrap up the ODI series to keep the winning momentum on their side after they had won the T20I series 2-1 last week. “It’s been a very well-fought series,” said Zimbabwe’s Ervine. “Every encounter that we have with Ireland is always closely-fought. It’s always very competitive and like what Stirling said, it’s hard fought on the field and the guys are close friends off the field, which is good. ” Zimbabwe had made four changes yesterday, with Gary Ballance out injured and replaced by the fit-again captain, Ervine. Fast bowler Victor Nyauchi, Tendai Chatara and Clive Madande were also left out of the playing team while spin bowler Brandon Mavuta, who had last played an ODI for Zimbabwe in April 2019, was set to feature for the first time in the series after he had been rewarded with a national team call up on the back of some strong performances on the domestic scene. Zimbabwe had also roped in Luke Jongwe and Wellington Masakadza in the starting side yesterday. Ervine elected to bat first after winning the toss, interestingly going against the grain, as teams have been choosing to bowl first during the six-match whiteball series to exploit the wicket early on. “We looked at the wicket and felt that it was a little bit drier than the previous wickets we have had and also obviously the second game being played on that same wicket, so we did feel that there would be a little bit of chance with the spin late on,” said Ervine. Chamu Chibhabha moved up to open the batting with Innocent Kaia, with Tadiwanashe Marumani moving down the order. But Zimbabwe had only faced 13 overs when the rain arrived and the officials were forced to stop play. Despite losing Chibhabha (16), Zimbabwe’s innings still looked promising with Innocent Kaia (24*) and Ervine (11) steadying the ship. Zimbabwe were on 55/1 when players were forced to seek shelter back in the pavilion. The conditions appeared to clear and attempts were made to dry the ground in anticipation of a resumption. But the ground staff was forced to put the covers back again as the rain returned, heavier, until a decision was made to declare a no-result. Ervine said the series was key for Zimbabwe’s integration purposes as younger players like Clive Madande, Tadiwanashe Marumani, Brad Evans and Wessly Madhevere were given generous opportunities alongside the experienced players. However, the young guns struggled for most of the series. “It’s an important transition to have the young guys mixed with the older guys. And, having a few injuries in our team throughout the series gave the other guys an opportunity to put up their hands and showcase their skills. “It’s going to be an important part of us going forward to try and have those youngsters in. But at the same time you don’t want them to be mentally affected if they do go through a bad patch of form. So it’s quite a fine balance,” said Ervine.