The Herald Lagos. — Social media is the new oil money for young people. Its growth is of importance to musicians, skit-makers and actors. Social media over the last decade has gradually displaced the huge need by many young people to chase down certain types of careers or jobs, if used wisely, it is the new Arab oil money Its importance to music, comedy and the movie industry cannot be underestimated in the current global system of marketing, advertising and promotion In this article, we would take a look at the growth, importance and need for all entertainers to master the use of social media for their content brand The internet, though developed in the 1980s, had very slow search engines which were not maximised until the 2000s, causing optimisation to be actualised at a supersonic rate and still improving from year to year. Social media began to make waves in 2004, following the establishment of Facebook. Tens of thousands of people who were the first users of this social media platform started off with their desktop computers and laptop computers, as there were no mobile devices that could install social media applications until the late 2000s into the early 2010s. Other social media platforms began to spring up; Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and also instant messaging apps like WhatsApp also came into the fray. Their importance to contemporary life is beyond essential, but they’re rather part of who we’re as a person now. This article discusses, the importance, growth and use of social media for entertainers and the promotion of their craft. The growth of social media and becoming a cornerstone for artists to promote themselves. The entertainment industry around the world has seen well over 90% of entertainers of various categories use all or some social media platforms. Social media agencies have gone as far as recognising these stars by distinguishing them, using a blue tick that shows they are verified. These platforms now play a vital role in how entertainers, promote their content and especially stay connected to their fan base, which is a focal point for any celebrity. Without the fans to cheer and talk about them, then whatever you create and produce as an entertainer isn’t recognised and loses value. Social media has helped so much that fans can come from anywhere in the world and not only from the celebrity’s nation. Social media has helped to evolve content creation, and it has rocketed to a whole new level. The use of mass media was good, but the evolution of social media has totally changed the narrative. These days, people do not need to watch stand-up comedy once a week. Connecting to the internet on their mobile phones and following young comedians on Instagram will help shake their ribs a good deal, as those pages have become go-to pages for stress relief. Skit-making has become a digital means of entertainment all over the globe, and many social media analysts believe it has come to stay. Social media growth is measured by how many followers and subscribers tune in to a celebrity’s page or channel. Social media has aided so many new innovations for entertainers. Bloggers can also run their personal audio content in what is known as a podcast. A good number of social media platforms also pay celebrities for using their platforms to generate traffic through their content. Such amounts are known as commissions, and the celebrity will agree on a certain percentage with the social media platform. In most cases, the more followers a celebrity has, the better the income generated from the social media platform.  The uses of social media for entertainers Social media has served various purposes to the world, particularly in the entertainment scene in the last decade. From music promotions to movie premieres and sporting events and a host of others, social media has helped to capture a wide audience for a great many entertainers who would not have been easily heard ordinarily without such online platforms. Many social media promotion groups have sprung up in the last few years that help to optimise followers and generate traffic for these people. Social media management has helped to create income for such promoters and hype men who deal in broadcasting celebrity’s latest work, posts, and in some cases, personal life as well. Social media has helped brands gain popularity by using entertainers as the face of their business. This marketing strategy has paid off greatly, as people are always intrigued when they see a household name on their phone screen marketing a certain brand, thus compelling regular people to patronise the business and brand. In 2019, Infinix announced Davido as an ambassador of the company, and they recorded a massive surge in purchases. Thanks to social media platforms where people see these celebrities marketing these products. As society continues to change, so do various value systems as well. Government agencies often campaign using celebrities on social media about the dangers of social vices in our day-to-day lives and activities. — Legit.ng.