The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter REAL Betis Football Academy Zimbabwe bade farewell to their head coach Murape Murape who has joined Dynamos as an assistant coach. Murape was the first coach to head the technical department of the academy which was launched in 2020. The former Dynamos skipper travelled to Spain with the team in December for their historic trip to their parent club. But Murape, who was hand-picked by the Glamour Boys head coach Herbert ”Jompano” Maruwa, is back in the top-flight league. Real Betis director Gerald Sibanda said they wish their former coach well. “We would like to thank Murape for his service and efforts and wish him the very best in his next chapter,” said Sibanda. The club has bolstered their technical department and acquired the services of another former DeMbare star Naison Muchekela. Muchekela will be part of the technical coaches for the senior age-groups. However, he is not a direct replacement for the head coach post vacant which has been left vacant by the departure of Murape. Muchekela said he was excited to join a growing academy. “I am totally indebted to Real Betis Academy for giving me this opportunity to come and work with this institution. An institution that has grown in leaps and bounds ever since its inception. “The Academy has a rich foundation and coaches who have rich knowledge of junior development. I believe I have seen Real Betis Academy in Zimbabwe as well as the international brand their possession-based philosophy is something that I totally subscribe to and something I am looking forward to working with during my tenure at the institution,” said Muchekela. Sibanda said this will be a 2023 season for the academy with recruitment and enrolment. “Naison comes with a lot of experience playing top-flight football in Zimbabwe playing for the youth national teams and also from a coaching point of view, he is a coach that has been involved with the highest level of the Premier League in Zimbabwe,” said Sibanda.