The Herald Freeman Razemba-Crime Reporter THEY say a cat has nine lives. And it appears notorious robber, Tichaona Kariwa (35), also had nine lives after surviving a fierce shoot-out with police in 2021, which claimed some of his colleagues in their criminal enterprise. Kariwa was linked to a slew of robberies in Harare, Chegutu, Bindura and Marondera, among other areas. On Wednesday, he did not possess the same survival skills as he was killed in a shoot-out with police in Harare. Two of his accomplices were seriously injured in the gunfire exchange. In February 2021, Kariwa of Domboshava, Mashonaland East Province, who was 33 then, was part of a gang of suspected robbers who robbed a Harare businessman of US$10 000. However, police were tipped-off to the robbery and waylaid them. The daring robbers resisted arrest, opting to shoot at the police, instead. In the ensuing shoot-out, four of the robbers were gunned down, including a then serving member of the Zimbabwe Republic Police, while two others, Kariwa and Blessing Bheura (29) cheated death, and were arrested. Those that were killed were Constable Kudzai Kanjera (41) of ZRP Hatfield, Admire Nhetekwa (26), Brian Chibaya (37) and Tatenda Chari (35). One of the suspects, Bheura, had just been released on bail pending appeal. Kariwa then ganged up with other abettors, and they have been terrorising residents and companies across the country. Nevertheless, luck has since eluded them. In the latest incident, on Wednesday, a Criminal Investigations Department (CID) Crack Team from Homicide received information that Courage Takunda Dumba, alias Toki (35), and Kariwa were at a hideout in Melfort, Mashonaland East Province, and they raided them. Realising that they had been cornered, the two fired at police officers who then returned fire resulting in both of them being shot and injured. Kariwa later died at the scene. Further investigations by the police led to the luring of the other three suspects to Belvedere, Harare, where another shoot-out ensued. Firing shots, the suspects attempted to scale over a security wall at a house belonging to a senior police officer. They were shot at, resulting in Mhandu being injured. Police recovered six guns, a .22 Mark revolver, a 9mm Star pistol, a .22 Astra pistol, a 9 mm Retyr pistol, and another 9mm pistol. A 303 rifle was recovered hidden in a bushy area along the Harare-Mutare Road. Various properties were also recovered, while a Honda Fit (AFM 4148), which the gang stole in Marondera, was recovered parked near a supermarket in Ruwa. So far, police have apprehended five suspects, including the injured Dumba and Mhandu, who are admitted to a local hospital under police guard. The other two suspects are Thulani Munetsi (42) and Zondai Precious Ngarandi (25), now assisting police with investigations. National police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, confirmed the arrests yesterday. The gang committed 14 robberies in Msasa Park, Waterfalls, Damofalls (Harare), Chegutu, Goromonzi, Mutare, Glendale, Bindura, Nyazura and Marondera, among other areas. They were targeting people and companies with large amounts of cash, and in some cases they would steal their victims’ cars. Investigations revealed that the gang, in the company of three other accomplices, Norman Tendai Munengwa (34), Blessing Dandadzi (34) and Jealous Mafuwa (36), who are in remand prison, robbed a businessman three times in separate incidents in Msasa Park. In the first case, on November 17, 2021, they attacked the hardware owner at his house while posing as plumbers and stole US$35 000 cash. And, in December 2021 they attacked him again and stole US$1 600 and various cellphones. In October last year, the gang pounced on the same businessman at his hardware store and stole US$1 300 cash, cellphones and a Toyota Axio. They were using an unregistered white Mercedes Benz vehicle. On October 6 last year, the robbers attacked a complainant in Waterfalls, who was driving a Toyota Baby Quantum, before stealing US$360 cash and a cellphone. In July, they raided a house in Damofalls where they got away with US$500, mobile phones and a Toyota Hilux Legend. In Chegutu, the gang raided Energy Park Service Station and stole US$15 246, while at Mutangadura Business Complex, along Harare-Mutare Road, the gang got away with US$13 000 cash. The suspects were drinking beer with their vehicle, a Mercedes Benz, parked at the business complex. Later, one of them produced a pistol and they attacked cashiers at the grocery shop. They also attacked a gold mine in Odzi and stole US$4 500, a Toyota Quantum and mobile phones. Also, at a house in Marlborough, Harare, they stole US$4 500 cash and property worth US$60 390. In Bindura, they stole US$5 600 and $60 000, and raided a company in the area and stole US$4 000 and other valuables. Still in Bindura, they attacked another company and stole various undisclosed amounts of cash. In Nyazura they attacked security guards at a farm and stole some cash. On January 2, this year, the robbers raided a farm in Marondera and stole a Honda Fit which has been recovered. Investigations are still in progress, and police have launched a manhunt for the other accomplices still at large.