The Herald Shepherd Chimururi Youth Interactive Correspondent This year marks a full decade in children computer education industry for contract ICT provider Kids Technology Generation (KTG). Founded in 2013 by Wayne Mubaiwa, KTG started with five machines and got its approval from Ministry of Education in 2014 at a time when most educationists did not understand how to blend computer education with other learning areas. An average of 200 learners from different schools are given lessons per day by the mobile computer tutors who move from one school to another using 15 laptops. Their target is group is ECD ‘A’ and ‘B’, grade one up to seven learners. Task based practical computer education is what they do. The learners do the real stuff and they are loving it. In an interview with Youth Interactive, Anita Chafadza a grade 7 pupil at Golden Junior, one of the partners of KTG in Budiriro surburb said at her school they specialise in theory and practical computer operation, hardware repairing and software updating. “We have also do 2D and 3D drawing using different such as computer aided design software. Computer programming is one of the interesting topics which we have covered including which involves image manipulation using a set of instructions there are also different networks like local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) including topologies like bus and ring,” she said. Grade five learner at Malvin Junior Joseph Facho said he is enjoying his lessons. “Tuesdays are my best day because we do computer stuff. ICT is my favourite subject. Topics that we have covered before include computer components identification, mouse handling, clicking, directing mouse to an object and clicking. I love designing and programming. The good thing is my parents promised to buy me a laptop so that every day I can do my designs. “My dream is to be a computer engineer because I want the computer to be more friendly to children,” he said. In order to connect with parents and conscientise them about computer education, KTG also organises computer days at various schools where parents come and watch their children performing different tasks. Elmore Sande who is doing grade six at Teddy’s Junior is one student who  has excelled at such events. “Last year I won a prize for being the best computer student. “My parents came and saw my designs and I was really happy seeing them smile. My mum thanked my teacher. “From there I now put an extra effort but my ambition is to make my own app that help students to find good schools that offer computer lessons and scholarships,” he said. In the spirit of inclusive education and social corporate responsibility at Jewel pre school KGT is putting special emphasis on more than 20 children with autism in different schools as well as offering free computer lessons from the Shungu Dzevana Children’s home who learn at the centre as well.