The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe says it would be sad to lose their star man William Manondo but the Green Machine have a plan B should the striker’s move to Zambian side Zanaco materialises. The Green Machine forward, who was the Premier Soccer League Golden Boot winner and Soccer Star first runner-up last season, is currently negotiating a move to the neighbouring country. Manondo was part of the Makepekepe team that was at a retreat camp in Goromonzi at the weekend, ahead of their first pre-season training session today. And his gaffer said although his impending departure could leave a void at the club, they would be happy for the veteran striker. “Plan B is always there. “The options are always there. But it would be sad to lose a very special player like William. All the same, this is the reason why we are in these jobs,” said Chitembwe. According to Chitembwe, the 31-year-old forward has been given the blessings by the club in his pursuit of the Zanaco deal. Manondo netted 17 goals for the Green Machine last season. “But l am happy for him, he did contribute quite massively for us last season. If that kind of opportunity comes your way, no one would want to miss such an opportunity. “He will go with our blessings and, of course, represent the country and the club in a foreign land. We will obviously try and improve the team from that kind of situation,” said Chitembwe. Makepekepe have largely been quiet during the early days of the PSL transfer business, but have so far beefed up their squad after adding ex-DeMbare defender Godknows Murwira, Innocent Zambezi and Admiral Matope. A fourth player they are targeting is currently in South Africa. Manondo told The Herald that he would be excited to join the Zambian club. “I am still negotiating with Zanaco and anytime l will leave, if the deal materialises. They are playing in the Champions League, so it will be a very good move for me,” said Manondo. However, should the deal fail to materialise, the former Harare City player said he is ready to help Makepekepe challenge for honours this season. The Green Machine last won the domestic league title in 2016. “As a club we have to correct our mistakes; we have learnt from the previous season. This time we are well-prepared. As a club we would want to win the league title. We plan but God decides. We need to work hard. “Personally, l would want to continue from where l left off. l believe l can do better and challenge myself. That is my target. I just need to stay focused and keep working hard. I think l can achieve more and even surpass what l did last season. I want to achieve more”, he said. Makepekepe are expected to start their pre-season training today after a weekend team building session where the team also had an opportunity to be addressed by the club’s president, Farai Jere. Jere gave the players the financial assurance as well as morale support. He said the players must give their best on the field and bring back the glory days. As part of their team building sessions, the players went through various presentations and had technical video sessions and the review of the code of conduct at the club.