The Herald Carl Maswoswa Youth Interactive Writer The adage that says, “if you are not growing you are dying, if you are not exposed, you are misinformed; if you are not updated you are outdated remains true” Self-development remains pivotal in the success or manifestation of youth success stories. Young people still care about their affairs with regard to national or family issues. A youth dinner is a form of gathering by the youth to provide an opportunity for conversation to discuss topical issues affecting them over a special meal in order to disrupt their thought process and foster confidence in their capabilities. Youth dinners have a symbiotic relationship with family meetings. Family meetings have become a thing of the past if not extinct as cell phones, television, and computers have interrupted an ecosystem of healthy relationships between the parent and the child. Busy family schedules have made eating together difficult thus youth dinners provide a platform for the youth to express their opinions, an opportunity for conversation, and a chance to share their life experiences. In a conversation with Coach Tanya Mazoe, an entrepreneur and a multiple award-winning young female Coach said, “each and every one of us has the potential to be and obtain what we want in life. But often we feel as if we can’t or don’t know where to begin” In the recent event she had, Outspired 2023, young people in Harare congregated in a bid to dream big and back it up with meaningful actions to create results and unlock greatness. Studies do confirm that youth who participate in frequent youth or family meetings are more likely to have a positive outlook on their future; understanding and following the expectations upon them. As it provides a sense of togetherness and security thus helping to mould them into healthy and well-rounded adults. The devastating fact for those that don’t participate in family or youth meetings is their high likelihood of participating in high-risk behaviours like substance abuse. We might come from different family backgrounds with different cultures but does it mean we can’t have a family or youth gathering? So how do we initiate a conversation amongst our family members or peers? You can have a conversation jar that you write different topics in then during meal time you could try to have a conversation on it. The conversations should be healthy and allow everyone to voice out their opinion without fear of being discriminated against or ridiculed with regard to their thought process and visualization of ideas. As the process is repeated it desensitizes every fabric of fear and doubt within themselves thus allowing the youth to have a connection to important family or cultural rituals if there are any! One is not afraid to pitch up their dreams, family suggestions, or even start devotions as their emotional boxes are well-ventilated and taken care of. Is it so today? In this 21st Century, the family fabric has been cut off as the Council of Elders in families no longer exists. Particularly in Zimbabwe, for some family get-togethers that existed in the nineties, today those that are meant to be family unifiers are one way or the other looking for a source or avenue of livelihood thus exposing the young child at heart to risky behaviours. If the seniors don’t avail themselves for a conversation or folktale then who do we expect to learn from, the internet? Technology has its own effects too thus youth dinners stand to bridge that gap to be active listeners and uphold a youth’s ability to hold a conversation. Last year The Tanyaradzwa Initiative, Young People For Jesus and Coach Emmah Incorporation organized their youth dinners and events as a way to foster development in youth and engage them in forming sustainable hubs meant to bring out the fire within. The most important thing you can ever do in your children’s life. Dine with them, listen, and give them an opportunity for a conversation. Youth dinners can, but families can do so much more!