The Herald LONDON. — Who would have thought by the time this clash between Liverpool and Chelsea came around we would be seeing a battle for mid-table supremacy? Injuries have killed any realistic chance of an English Premiership football title charge for either side — but some fans are shouldering more blame on the managers at present. Jurgen Klopp might have delivered Liverpool to a historic title triumph in 2019/20, but over-reliance on some of those same players hasn’t helped things this season. Some of the youngsters he has brought into the first-team squad – the likes of Harvey Elliott and Fabio Carvalho – have shown glimpses of their talents. But would they form part of a title-winning XI now? The jury is well and truly out. Chelsea were taken over by Todd Boehly, sacked boss Thomas Tuchel and poached Graham Potter from Brighton. The neutrals among us were pleased to see one of the giants of English football giving a big change to an Englishman. But even by his own admission, Potter has found it tough going at Stamford Bridge. He has been hammered by a succession of injuries that have meant he has never been able to put out the same XI. But Blues fans, backed by their new billionaire, want so much more than what they are seeing right now. Who will win the mid-table mediocrity clash today? Will new £88m signing Mykhailo Mudryk feature for Chelsea? SunSport runs through the key things to watch and provides a big match prediction. What is their form like? Liverpool looked to be getting their season back on track — until successive losses against Brentford and Brighton. Klopp’s side have won three and lost two of their last five English Premier League games. Chelsea ended a three-game winless run by beating Crystal Palace last time out 1-0. In their last five games they have won two, lost two and drawn one. What is the team news and any injuries to worry about? Liverpool’s season has been hit by a whole host of injuries. Roberto Firmino, Arthur Melo, Virgil van Dijk, Diogo Jota and Luis Diaz are all ruled out. Darwin Nunez and Konstantino Tsimikas are battling to shake off niggles for the game. Chelsea’s medical room is even busier. Edouard Mendy, Christian Pulisic, Armando Broja, Ben Chilwell, Wesley Fofana, Reece James, Denis Zakaria, Raheem Sterling and N’Golo Kante are all crocked. Joao Felix will miss the game after being sent off on his debut against Fulham. But new £88m signing Mykhailo Mudryk is set to feature – thought might have to wait on the bench. — The Sun. 