The Herald MELBOURNE. — An emotional Novak Djokovic completed an extraordinary turnaround from the events of a year ago when he resumed his hegemony over the Australian Open. The 35 year-old Serbian tennis star, detained and deported over visa issues relating to his unvaccinated status last January, won his 10th Australian Open title when he defeated Stefanos Tsitsipas 6-3, 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (7-5) in two hours and 56 minutes inside a rowdy Rod Laver Arena yesterday. By doing so he equalled Rafael Nadal’s tally of 22 Grand Slam trophies in what was his 33rd final, one in which the crushing weight of experience was brought to bear. Djokovic dropped just one set all tournament despite saying he feared a left hamstring problem might force him to withdraw, and he finished with a superb win over first-time Melbourne finalist Tsitsipas to become the fifth player to win 22 Grand Slam singles titles, after Margaret Court (24), Serena Williams (23), and Steffi Graf and Nadal (both 22). Djokovic also reclaims the world No. 1 ranking from Carlos Alcaraz, and it would be very difficult to argue that he does not justify that position having once again put the younger generations in their place. His status in Australia, meanwhile, is unmatched, with the 35-year-old winning a 28th consecutive Australian Open match and a 41st in a row in the country as a whole. Presented with the runner-up trophy, Tsitsipas heralded Djokovic as ‘’the greatest player ever to hold a racket.’’ Djokovic had wept uncontrollably as he celebrated with his family, and continued when he got back to his chair. He said: ‘’What a journey it has been for my family my team and myself. I appreciate the patience and love you are giving me. ‘’This has been one of the most challenging tournaments I have ever played in my life, not playing last year, coming back this year and I want to thank all the people who made me feel comfortable. ‘’There’s a reason I have played my best tennis on this court. Only the team knows what we have been through in the last five weeks, this is the biggest victory of my life considering the circumstances.’’ A tournament short on great matches burst into life in the second set when the Greek put his opponent under severe pressure, but ultimately it was a familiar story of Djokovic being the stronger when it most mattered. That included the third set tiebreak, in which he raced to a 5-0 lead and then remained calm when Tsitsipas took the next three points. Djokovic sealed it with a forehand on his third match point 7-5. He pointed to his head before climbing up into his box to celebrate and then breaking down. He regains the world number one position, despite playing fewer tournaments than his rivals, and if there can be no arguing with that. In the mechanics of the game, particularly in areas such as the return, he is clearly ahead of the chasing pack. — Mailonline.