The Herald Arts Reporter Musikana akanaka! A beautiful lady is like a moon which fell in love with the blue night and shared all her light . . . Love confuses such that even the most dull guy on earth wishes to have a beautiful girl. A Zimbabwean-born United States based musician Peter Thulani could have been literally ‘confused’ with the beauty of his loved one compelling him to pen a song titled, “Mskana akanaka.” The track accompanied by a video was released on his YouTube account three weeks ago. In the song Thulani seems like a lonely figure searching for a beautiful woman. It has deep soothing lyrics and catchy chorus. His opening lyrics are ‘ndoda musikana akanaka’ and as the song progresses, he goes on to say, ‘ndiratidzei musikana akanaka…ndakamirira ini…’ If one listens to the song he or she is surely guaranteed to be taken down memory lane to yesteryear hits like of ‘Musikana akanaka’ by Alexio Kawara. The visuals are also captivating using a rural background of farm set up with a boy appearing herding cattle while and goats. His video was shot in South Africa by director Kyle White. Speaking from his base in America, Thulani said the song is indeed more of a prayer to God seeking for a true loving life partner to marry who is cultured. “My first single called ‘Mskana Akanaka’ dropped on December 24, will be followed by ‘Uzere’ on February 13, and this will be a special Valentines Day dedication track. Each of these singles have videos which were shot in South Africa by the amazingly talented director Kyle White. “I plan to continue releasing quality videos. The video for my latest single ‘Mskana Akanaka’ is no exception. I flew to Johannesburg just to shoot these videos because I specifically wanted to work with Kyle. The final production is stellar,” he said. Thulani said he started commercialise his works in 2010 releasing two albums under the Peter Thulani brand, but has also written and produced for other artists over the years. “I write and produce all my music but I still love collaborating with other musicians to add their flavour to my tracks,” he said. Thulani had starved his fans of music for the past last two years after having last released ‘Please heal the world’ in 2020. “I took a sabbatical to focus on crafting my new sound, but my goal is to release a new full body of work each year and release at least four singles per year,” he said. The video that has since attracted 22 000 views on YouTube has fans commenting with one @muneedmukadam9030 saying: “Awesome song.. so good to hear such quality and talent from Zimbabwe.” @shaz263 said, “I’ve loved every song by you Thulani! This one is my new favourite. Can’t wait until you release the rest of the album in Summer ‘23.” Born in Mutare Thulani is a 38-year-old singer, songwriter and producer based in Dallas, Texas. He is the youngest in a family of three.