The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter THE Premier Netball League’s programme for this year is scheduled to get underway next month with a pre-season tournament in Harare. PNL chairperson, Sarudzai Chapo, yesterday confirmed that they are going to hold the pre-season competition on February 18. All the league’s clubs are expected to take part.  “The pre-season is on February 18.  “It’s open to all clubs in the league and it will also give us a chance to see who has the capacity to participate in the league because this is where proper planning for the season begins,” said Chapo. Some of the clubs have begun their pre-season preparations and the tournament presents them with a platform to gauge their readiness for league competition.  ZDF Queens are back in training and coach Joel Sibanda said they are looking forward to better fortunes this season. They retained their players from last season and signed goal shooter Lynette Tanhira from Platinum Queens. “We have started pre-season training. All our players are back, everyone is geared for this coming season. “So far we welcome Lynette Tanhira, our new signing from Platinum Queens,” said Sibanda. ZDF were placed third in the previous season behind reigning champions Platinum Queens and GreenFuel. Platinum Queens have been the title holders since the introduction of the PNL in 2021. “We are saying enough is enough of Platinum Queens. This time we are going to win including the pre-season tournament. “There is also GreenFuel, it’s not just Platinum Queens. But we are not worried about them. We are going to beat them. We will correct our mistakes from last season. “Sometimes when we play, we fail to utilise our opportunities, the turnovers we get and we end up losing. But this time we are working on that and we are correcting those mistakes. “I believe 2023 is our year. We need to at least get something this year, including winning the pre-season tournament,” said Sibanda. Harare City are hoping to kick-start their pre-season training tomorrow. They finished fifth last season. Their coach, Ropafadzo Mutsauki, said with adequate preparations and some additions to the team, they can improve their performance from last year. “We were supposed to start our training session today (yesterday) but there was a communication breakdown, so we are now looking forward to start on Friday. “So far I have not had any confirmation on the players we have been engaging to beef-up our team. We are still negotiating. So I can’t confirm at the moment who will be joining us. “This year we are looking forward to a better season and if our plans go accordingly, we want to be very competitive and make the top four. “If we manage to beef-up the team and have adequate preparations, I think we can reach our targets,” said Mutsauki. Mutsauki, who is also the senior national team coach, said with Zimbabwe preparing for the Netball World Cup, he is expecting a more competitive season as players want to make the national team. “Everyone wants to make the team for the World Cup, so it means players will be showcasing their best game, and it will create a competitive and exciting competition. So this year we may have one of the best seasons. “I think it will be one of the best seasons, there has been a lot player movement, meaning teams are likely to be balanced as well and it will probably be an exciting season,” said Mutsauki. GreenFuel have also begun their pre-season training. They have been making some positive strides in the league after coming second in 2022, which was an improvement from their fourth-place finish in the inaugural season of the PNL.