The Herald LONDON. — Erik ten Hag admitted that he was “annoyed” with the mistakes Manchester United made in Sunday’s disappointing 3-2 loss against Arsenal. Marcus Rashford fired United into an early lead at the Emirates but Aaron Wan-Bissaka was caught napping by Eddie Nketiah, who ghosted in at the back post to restore parity before the half-time break. United then allowed Bukayo Saka to cut in and fizz a sumptuous strike beyond David de Gea before Nketiah’s second goal of the game in the dying moments condemned the visitors to a dramatic defeat. Ten Hag, who saw his side drop precious points in added-on time against Crystal Palace in midweek, was once again left to rue a late goal. But the Dutchman made no excuses for his side and was adamant that they should have done better and seen the game out. “Maybe in the next couple of hours we realise we are in a good position, realise we are in a good development, a good process, but at this moment I am annoyed,” Ten Hag said after the match. “I also told the players if you want to win trophies, titles, we have to change our mentality. “Because it’s not possible you are in a top game, you’re making three such big mistakes where you concede goals. Especially the last goal, you have to feel the game on that point. A point was the maximum and then you have to take the point and you can’t give such a goal away like we did on top level. Then you can’t win trophies. “I think (the mentality changes) with coaching, I think we can change that, we have already seen how the mentality from the players has changed over the last couple of months but we also have to notice today we have a way to go to be on top level.” When he was asked to delve a bit deeper on the defensive mistakes United made, Ten Hag claimed that his side folded “like a pack of cards”. He added: “I think it’s too much to talk about but it was like a pack of cards with the goals we concede, starting with the corner and then we make mistakes. We didn’t show the discipline and rules we have there, and you concede goals. “I said before, the team who wants the most will win today. Of course, we had a game in the week, we had some disadvantages, but excuses are not possible at the top level. — The Mirror