The Herald LONDON. — Graham Potter retains the support of Chelsea’s board despite Sunday’s 4-0 FA Cup defeat by Manchester City. The former Brighton boss has been under pressure after a run of six losses in nine games in all competitions, with Chelsea exiting both domestic cups and slipping to 10th in the English Premier League football table. Fans sung the name of former boss Thomas Tuchel, who was sacked in September, during Sunday’s game. But Chelsea see Potter, who replaced Tuchel, as a long-term appointment. There is belief he can turn around the club’s form, which has not been helped by a long list of injuries. The club want to adopt a different approach to that of former owner Roman Abramovich, who was renowned for his high turnover of managers. The Russian’s name was also sung by Chelsea fans during the loss at Manchester City. Potter said Sunday’s 4-0 FA Cup loss to Manchester City was “painful” and he understood the supporters’ reaction as the London side suffered a sixth loss in nine games to pile on more misery in the Englishman’s short tenure. Potter says he is sure he can win over Chelsea supporters despite them chanting for the return of Tuchel during their FA Cup exit to Manchester City. Chelsea were thrashed by City 4-0 at the Etihad on Sunday, courtesy of goals from Riyad Mahrez, Julian Alvarez and Phil Foden. Chelsea were booed at half-time when they went into the break 3-0 down before they lost to City for a third time in as many months this season. The Blues looked completely and utterly out of their depth, managing just three shots, one on target, in the whole match, and fans quickly turned their fury on Potter. Away fans chanted Tuchel’s name, with many supporters still feeling their former manager was unfairly sacked back in September, and also sang for ex-owner Roman Abramovich. The defeat marked the first time in 25 years that Chelsea had exited the FA Cup in the third round, while they are also out of the League Cup after losing to City in November. The chants were impossible for Potter and his team to ignore and he addressed the matter in his post-match press conference, saying: “We can’t do anything but do our jobs better and work harder. “We understand the supporters frustration but our job is to do our job. There are always other opinions, criticism and negativity, but that’s part of the challenge. “It’s always challenging in the English Premier League and it’s always challenging here. I understand their frustration and I understand when you look at results and the team performance today that it is far away from Manchester City. “That’s clear. We have to focus on the next day, the next match. We play on Thursday (against Fulham) and it’s an important game for us. “We need to stay together as group, support each other, and I’m sure we will get the support of the supporters when we see good performances and results. “I thought we were second best to a very good side. Obviously, we’re not in a great moment,” Potter told reporters. “Manchester City did really well in terms of stopping us . . . but at the same time, we struggled. “We the had to chase the ball against Man City and we were caught between trying to commit more men forward and not being opened up. The first half was painful and tough for us all. “Congratulations Man City. They deserved to win of course. We’re disappointed because we’ve gone out.” Chelsea’s dispiriting performance away at the Etihad Stadium also prompted the travelling fans to chant in support of former manager Tuchel, who was sacked in September, as well as the club’s former owner Abramovich. FA CUP FOURTH-ROUND DRAW IN FULL Preston North End v Tottenham Southampton v Blackpool Wrexham v Sheffield United Ipswich Town v Burnley Manchester United v Reading Luton or Wigan v Grimsby Town Derby County v West Ham Stoke City v Stevenage Blackburn Rovers v Forest Green or Birmingham City Walsall v Leicester City Sheffield Wednesday v Fleetwood Town Man City v Oxford or Arsenal Bristol City or Swansea v Chesterfield or West Brom Brighton v Liverpool or Wolves Fulham v Sunderland Boreham Wood or Accrington v Cardiff or Leeds United The FA Cup fourth round is scheduled to be played across January 27 to January 30. — Reuters