The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter FOLLOWING some positive strides in the second season of the Premier Netball League last year, GreenFuel are looking forward to continue from where they left when the 2023 programme gets underway. The PNL have scheduled their pre-season tournament for February 18 with all league clubs expected to compete. And indications are that the league will then take off two weeks after the tournament. With their pre-season training underway, GreenFuel coach Sibonginkosi Dube says they are aiming for a top two finish. “We aim to make a top two finish. So far we are working on conditioning training and endurance,” said Dube. To boost their side, the club signed the pair of Beatitude Ngwenya and Kudakwashe Muchengi. Both are defenders as the team seeks to strengthen their defence. “We are generally in the right path in view of our work ethics and also basing on the high work rate of players. We have signed two new players, Beatitude and Kudakwashe,” said Dube. Dube joined the club in 2021 just before the season took-off on a rebuilding exercise that saw her bringing in young players and managed to lead the team to a fourth-place finish. Having spent some time with the team and bonding, going into the 2022 season they were targeting the top three and her side proved to be a force to reckon with in the league as they finished second behind Platinum Queens. They defeated some of the seasoned clubs such as ZDF Queens and Harare City. ZDF Queens coach Joel Sibanda recently singled out GreenFuel as one of the teams they are considering as a threat to their ambition to win the title this year. With the team going for a top two finish this year, Dube said they need to ensure their players get their fitness level right from the onset. And their immediate task is getting the players ready for the pre-season tournament. It is also a chance to measure their state of preparedness for the league games. “We are generally working on fitness and endurance. We believe our fitness will carry us through,” said Dube. The club had a number of their players making the junior and senior national teams last year. Among their leading players were Nicole Muzanenhamo, Thandekile Mahlangu and rising goal shooter Thandazile Ndlovu, who was also part of the Under-19 side that took part at the Confederation of Southern African Netball Association (COSANA) tournament in Malawi. Dube will be hoping her charges continue with the same zeal and dedication that has helped the club rise to their current status. PNL chairperson Sarudzai Chapo said with the Gems due to compete at the World Cup, they are confident of stiff competition for the forthcoming season as players compete for places in the national team. “We are expecting greater competition as we polish our act for World Cup 2023,” said Chapo.