The Herald Ricky Zililo-Bulawayo Bureau A GENEROUS offer tabled by ambitious Botswana Premier Soccer League side Jwaneng Galaxy was hard to ignore for former Highlanders defensive midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku who became the latest player to leave the country. Masuku, a Highlanders junior product, sneaked out of the country to Botswana last week before Bosso announced his permanent move after agreeing terms with the ambitious Jwaneng Galaxy yesterday. “The club would like to announce the departure of vice-captain Nqobizitha Masuku. Masuku has completed a permanent move to Jwaneng Galaxy of Botswana. We are grateful for the contribution he made to the club during his stay at Bosso. “We wish him well in his new endeavours,” reads a statement by Highlanders. The 29-year-old’s move came as a shocker to some as he was one of the senior players at Amahlolanyama. His departure means that Mason Mushore, Darlington Mukuli and Adrian Silla as well as Gillian Nyathi, who was promoted from the Bosso90, will compete for the central defence role. In an interview from his Botswana base, Masuku, who first donned the Highlanders senior team shirt in 2015 when he was a key figure in the side that won the Easycall Cup following a 1-0 win against Chicken Inn, said he is ready for the Jwaneng Galaxy challenge. This is the second time for Masuku to play outside the country, having spent the year at Zambia’s Buildcon in 2018. Masuku was with FC Platinum in 2016 and 2017 after leaving Highlanders. On his return to Zimbabwe, Masuku signed for Highlanders in December 2018. His contract with Bosso was supposed to expire at the end of 2024. “I’m more than happy to be at Jwaneng Galaxy, it’s a new challenge which I’m ready to tackle. I got a good offer from the club and l felt like I wanted a new challenge and a new adventure in my career. I’ve signed a one-and-a-half-year deal. “The reception has been awesome and l already feel at home. Obviously, as a player, you want to win silverware wherever you go and that’s my desire to achieve something with Jwaneng Galaxy,” Masuku said. The former Bantu Rovers and national team midfielder leaves Bosso with sweet memories. “I have got so many memories with Highlanders but winning the NetOne Cup (Easycall Cup) and the Chibuku Super Cup (2019) are some of the best memories.  The victories meant a lot to us as players and more to the fans who always believe in the team. “It has been an honour to don the black and white Jersey and Highlanders will always be my home,” Masuku said. Masuku becomes the second player from Highlanders to join Jwaneng Galaxy who are in position two in the Botswana Premiership table with 27 points after 11 games. Winger Daniel Msendami joined the side in August on a loan deal that culminated in a permanent move last month with Highlanders reportedly pocketing US$12 000. Jwaneng Galaxy trail defending champions Gaborone United by two points and with a possibility of clinching the league title, the ambitious side hopes Masuku’s experience will be key in their championship fight. During the 2019/20 season, Galaxy were declared Botswana Premier League champions by virtue of being on top of the log after 20 matches when the league action was halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic.