The Herald Sports Reporter THE recent One Day International series between Zimbabwe and Ireland has favoured the touring side more after the Irish players made significant strides in the latest MRF Tyres ICC Men’s ODI Player Rankings. In the latest weekly update, which also considered performances in the three-match series that was drawn 1-1 in Harare, Chevrons’ star all-rounder Sikandar Raza was the only home player to make positive steps after he moved up two places to number 31 among the ODI batsmen. Raza is Zimbabwe’s highest ranked batsman, followed by fellow all-rounder, Sean Williams, who dropped one place to 59th, after missing the ODI series because of a finger injury. The Chevrons bowlers also remained stagnant, at most, as Ireland batter Harry Tector was the biggest beneficiary of the series. Tector advanced 12 places to 13th position among the ODI batsmen after leading the series aggregate with 176 runs. Ireland seam bowlers Joshua Little and Mark Adair both advanced after finishing with five wickets each in the series. Little has progressed 27 places to 33rd position and Adair is up 46 places to 57th. India’s fast bowler Mohammad Siraj grabbed the top position for bowlers after a superb show in the home series against New Zealand which his team won 3-0 to take number one position in the team rankings. The 28-year-old took five wickets in the two matches that he played in, including a haul of four for 46 in the first ODI on his home ground of Hyderabad. This followed another fruitful series against Sri Lanka, in which he had finished with nine wickets to move up to number three. Other Indian bowlers to be number one in the ODI rankings are Kapil Dev, Maninder Singh, Anil Kumble, Ravindra Jadeja and Jasprit Bumrah. Siraj’s new-ball partner in the New Zealand series, Mohammad Shami, too has moved up the rankings, up 11 places to 32nd position after taking four wickets in two matches. Left-arm wrist spinner Kuldeep Yadav and seam bowler Shardul Thakur have reaped the gains of finishing with six wickets each in the series. Yadav has moved from 21st to 19th while Thakur has progressed five places and is 35th.