The Herald Yeukai Karengezeka Arts Correspondent United States-based Zimbabwean gospel musician Julian Kanombirira better known as Julian King has unveiled his latest single titled “Rekete” featuring the award-winning gospel singer Minister Michael Mahendere. A dazzling video complements the jovial party song. The master piece which has a fusion of afro-beat and amapiano clearly reveals the artistic prowess of both artistes. The song was produced by Haniel Muzerengwa and Sobusa Khumalo aka Jsobondatrack. The mixing and mastering of the song was done by Wayne Malomo better known as WayneBeats. The song begins with an English verse from Julian in which he appreciates God for lifting him up, showering him with praise and giving him a reason to dance. Mahendere then comes in with a Shona verse in which he reminisces about what God has done, giving him a reason to dance and praise Him. In an interview from his Unites States base, Julian told Herald Arts and Entertainment that he was overwhelmed by the response the song is receiving. “We thought that it was ideal for ushering people into the new year with a song of gratitude. The response has been awesome and we are still pushing the song,” he said. He said rekete is derived from the Shona word Reketa which means speak or declare but in this context rekete means to praise or glorify. The singer who is also a producer revealed how excited he was to work with his mentor Mahendere on this collabo. “I was so ecstatic to work with Minister Mahendere on this project. Minister is a good man who has been consistent in Ministry and challenges me to be better in many ways. “There are times in Zimbabwe when we wouldn’t even be singing and I would just be tagging along with him just to get words of wisdom from him,” Julian said. The “Rwendo” hit-maker said his vision is to inspire young people to be the best at what they do and achieve tangible results and more importantly encourage them to have a good relationship with God. In the past, Julian used to be a backing vocalist to Mahendere before he left Harare for Dallas, Texas. Apart from singing gospel music Julian also sings other genres and his messages often emanate from social issues that affect people in their day-to-day lives. He is known for his songs “Ndomudawo”, “Desperate”, “Blessings On Me” and “Muchazvirega”. He has done collaboration songs with Jah Master, Sanii Makhalima, Jah Master and ExQ. He attended Chemhanza Primary School in Wedza, Murewa Mission Primary School and Murewa High School, Nemakonde High School in Chinhoyi and Mutoko Government High School. He holds an Honors Degree in Accounting from Africa University and a Masters Degree in Business Administration (Strategy and Entrepreneurship) from the US. Last year Julian won the StarFM Best song by a Zimbabwean Artist in the diaspora award and the Maranatha Outstanding Minister in the Diaspora.