The Herald LONDON. — Casemiro underlined his importance to Manchester United with two goals as they cruised past Reading 3-1 to reach the FA Cup fifth round at Old Trafford on Saturday night. While the Brazil midfielder was brought to the club in August 2022 to deliver steel to the heart of United’s midfield, he displayed his effectiveness further forward to break the Royals’ resistance early in the second half. He scooped home the opening goal after racing on to Antony’s incisive pass, and doubled United’s lead four minutes later, curling in from the edge of the box after collecting Fred’s pass. “He’s done what he was brought in to do. He’s a phenomenal player,” said United captain Harry Maguire. “You don’t win what he’s won without being a top player. He’s improved the team, the morale, the performance and it is great to have him.” The former Real Madrid midfielder’s absence was sharply felt by United during their Premier League defeat at Arsenal last weekend, and he was given a standing ovation by the home supporters who fully recognise his value to the club. “He (Casemiro) is really important with all his experience, but he is such a smart player and intelligent,” said United manager Erik ten Hag. “He knows the positions, how to deal with the ball and also he is creative as well, and we are really happy with him. He is important for the improvement of the team.” Any hopes Reading had of mounting a recovery were dented when Andy Carroll was sent off after picking up his second yellow card shortly before Fred backheeled in the hosts’ third goal from Bruno Fernandes’ cross. And although Ten Hag’s side had opportunities to score a fourth, substitute Amadou Mbengue headed in a consolation for Championship side Reading from Tom Ince’s corner. Meanwhile, Kelechi Iheanacho spared Leicester City from a potential FA Cup giant-killing as his second-half goal saw the Foxes beat fourth-tier Walsall 1-0 and progress to the fifth round on Saturday, while Leeds advanced with a 3-1 win over Accrington Stanley. Top-flight Fulham were in danger of losing to visiting Championship (second-tier) team Sunderland but salvaged a 1-1 draw thanks to Tom Cairney’s equaliser at Craven Cottage. Southampton put their Premier League woes aside to beat Championship strugglers Blackpool 2-1 while Bristol City eased to a 3-0 win over fellow second-tier side West Bromwich Albion. Leicester, who beat fourth-tier strugglers Gillingham with an Iheanacho goal in round three, faced a stern test from a hard-working, high-energy Walsall outfit. It took 30 minutes for Leicester to get a shot on target and a frustrating afternoon was made worse as Belgium midfielder Youri Tielemans’ struck a penalty against the post after Patson Daka was fouled inside the box. Second-half substitute Iheanacho unlocked Walsall when his effort from the edge of the box deflected off the back of home defender Brandon Comley, turning it into a curling, dipping ball that proved too much for goalkeeper Owen Evans to handle. With Foxes boss Brendan Rodgers saying after the match that first-choice striker Jamie Vardy will be out for “a few weeks” after suffering a gluteal injury in training, Iheanacho, who has started once in the league this sesaon, could get his chance. “He will get more game time with Vards out for a few weeks. It depends on the type of game we are looking to play,” Rodgers told reporters. — BBC Sport.