The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN cricketer Sikandar Raza was left pondering what could have been after he missed out on the International Cricket Council 2022 individual awards that were dominated by Pakistan’s Babar Azam. The 36-year-old all-rounder was the only player nominated for three of the biggest awards on offer, as he was in the running for the ICC Men’s ODI Cricketer of the Year, ICC Men’s T20I Cricketer of the Year and the most coveted Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy for the ICC Men’s Cricketer of the Year. However, it was Pakistan icon Babar, who walked away with a double after landing the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy, as well as scooping the Men’s ODI Cricketer of the Year prize. India’s Suryakumar Yadav scooped the ICC Men’s T20I Cricketer of the Year. England captain Ben Stokes was named as the ICC men’s Test Cricketer of the Year. In the women’s game, England’s all-round sensation Nat Sciver was the biggest winner after she lifted the Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy and the Women’s ODI Cricketer of the Year award. The winners were selected following a global vote conducted among an independent panel of prominent media representatives — the ICC Voting Academy — whose votes were combined with those of cricket fans from around the world registered to icc-cricket.com. Winners in the 13 individual categories were based on overall performances and achievements throughout the calendar year. Raza, who became the first Zimbabwean cricketer to be nominated for the ICC end of year as awards, had hoped to cap a fine year of cricketing brilliance after he was named in the 2022 ICC Men’s T20I Cricket Team of the Year as well as the ICC Men’s ODI Cricket Team of the Year, this week. The ICC Team of the Year recognises outstanding individuals who have impressed one and all — be it with the bat, the ball or their all-round exploits in a calendar year. Raza played his best cricket in 2022. His consistent performances earned him a place in the Most Valuable Team of the Tournament at the recent ICC T20 Men’s World Cup 2022 in Australia. Raza was the first Zimbabwean to win the ICC Player of the Month award in August before he got nominated for the second time in three months for the October gong. He was also named in the 2022 Wisden’s Men’s T20I Team of the Year and the ESPNcricinfo’s Men’s ODI Team of the Year for 2022. He scored 1 380 runs and 33 wickets in 39 matches during the year. “Sikandar Raza emerged as a crisis man for Zimbabwe in a year that saw the African country’s stocks rise in international cricket,” said the ICC in a statement. “Raza was a force to reckon with in both white-ball formats, scoring more than 600 runs in both T20Is and ODIs. The star all-rounder enjoyed his most prolific year with both bat and ball since making his debut in 2013. “Raza scored 645 runs at an average of 49.61 in ODIs. All three of his centuries in the 50-over format came when the chips were down while chasing – two of them resulted in wins over Bangladesh and the final one gave India a huge scare. “In T20Is, Raza struck at an incredible strike rate of over 150 to accumulate his 745 runs. He was also the highest wicket-taker in the shortest format, scalping 25 while giving away just 6.13 an over. “He was the Player of the Tournament at T20 World Cup Qualifier B in July and carried his form into the marquee event, winning the Player of the Match thrice, including Zimbabwe’s epic win over Pakistan.” The Zimbabwean remained a fan favourite and many took to the social media yesterday to express their dissatisfaction after the awards ended with nothing for the Zimbabwean, despite the three nominations. But the honour belonged to Babar, who became the second Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy winner from Pakistan in consecutive years, emulating the feat of his teammate Shaheen Shah Afridi, who won the prize in 2021. Babar also set new records in 2022, not least becoming the first, and still the only, player to win the ICC Men’s Player of the Month award on two occasions. Picking up where he left off in 2021, Babar enjoyed another momentous year, captaining his side to two Finals, including the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup in Australia. At the crease, he piled on the runs in all formats, scoring over 2,500 international runs across ODIs, T20Is and Tests, ending the year as the leading run-scorer in the latter. The Pakistan batter also claims the ICC Men’s ODI Cricketer of the Year award for a second successive year – the first to do this since Virat Kohli in 2017 and 2018. Babar consolidated his position atop the ODI batter rankings thanks to his staggering scoring consistency, registering 679 runs in nine matches at an average of 84.87. Within these numbers came notable performances against the likes of Australia, West Indies and New Zealand. Reacting to the awards, Babar said, “I feel humbled to have been voted as winner of the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy and join the ranks of some of the most iconic and respected names who have previously won the biggest and most prestigious individual award in our great sport. “I continue to look up to these players as well as champions of the past for inspiration, motivation and improvement. “As cricket is a team sport, this recognition and achievement would not have been possible without the overwhelming support of my family, team, fans and the institution, to all of whom I am greatly indebted and thankful. “Every match I played for Pakistan has been special and memorable, but the most satisfying and accomplishing aspect for me was to compete and perform in front of my home fans against Australia, England and New Zealand’s touring sides. “Of course, reaching the finals of two major tournaments in the United Arab Emirates and Australia were also some of the highlights for me and my team, and we hope to do better this year, which is going to be equally demanding but highly rewarding.”  ICC awards winners for 2022 Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy:  Babar Azam Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy:  Nat Sciver Men’s Test Cricketer of the Year:  Ben Stokes Men’s ODI Cricketer of the Year:  Babar Azam Women’s ODI Cricketer of the Year:  Nat Sciver Men’s T20I Cricketer of the Year:  Suryakumar Yadav Women’s T20I Cricketer of the Year:  Tahlia McGrath Men’s Emerging Cricketer of the Year:  Marco Jansen Women’s Emerging Cricketer of the Year:  Renuka Singh Men’s Associate Cricketer of the Year:  Gerhard Erasmus Women’s Associate Cricketer of the Year:  Esha Oza David Shepherd Trophy:  Richard Illingworth Spirit of Cricket Award:  Aasif Sheikh