The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter NEWLY-PROMOTED Castle Lager Premier Soccer League side Sheasham are not leaving anything to chance after they completed the signing of several experienced players who coach John Nyikadzino believes will help them in their maiden dance with top-flight football. “The Construction Boys”, as Sheasham are affectionately known by their fans, will kick-off their pre-season friendly matches with a clash against Harare Giants Dynamos at Ascot this Saturday. Sheasham, an ambitious side won the ZIFA Central Region Soccer League championship after a fierce competition from TelOne last season. The Gweru-based side have brought on their books former CAPS United players Diego Makurumidze and Tichaona Zota Macheka as they try to add some experienced players to their squad. Nyikadzino, a seasoned coach who has been with Chapungu United in the past, said he is happy with their pre-season preparations and are now looking forward to their first pre-season friendly match against Dynamos at Ascot on Saturday. “I am happy with the progress we have made so far as we have managed to retain 11 players from the team that won promotion last year and we are almost done on the market. We are only left with two slots and the players we are targeting are there, but we are still engaging their respective clubs. “We started off our pre-season preparations in rural Murambinda where we worked mostly on fitness and team building as we want a good bond within the camp. The team is doing well and we are looking forward to the new season,” said Nyikadzino. The Sheasham coach believes their main objective is to survive relegation in their first season in the Premier League and then challenge for honours. “We will be not in the Premier League to add numbers but to compete and where possible we need to collect maximum points. “I know it’s competitive up there as I have been through it with Chapungu and I am looking forward to a challenging season. The team is getting the necessary support and I believe we will be able to stand our ground,” added Nyikadzino. Sheasham have been active in the transfer market, bringing on board Makurumidze and Macheka from CAPS United on two-year contracts and they headline a list of 10 new players that Nyikadzino has added to his arsenal. Sheasham also added former FC Platinum and Highlanders goalkeeper Future Sibanda, who was with ZPC Kariba, and WhaWha’s roving defensive midfielder Munyaradzi Chirwa. The Gweru-based side also secured the services of Simbarashe Chimanikire, Parkington Mazhawu and Leonard Jani from Golden Eagles, ZPC Kariba and Talen Vision respectively. Tafadzwa Marira, Polyester Shoko and Jubani Tuwe complete the list of senior players with Michael Joseph topping the juniors list.