The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter FORMER Zimbabwe Saints board chairman and staunch CAPS United supporter, Columbus Makumbe, has died. Makumbe was involved in a fatal car accident near Norton along Zvimba road on his way back from his farm in Chitomborwizi on Tuesday afternoon. He was 62. The football fanatic was a regular feature at CAPS United matches in the late 1980s and early 1990s when he would travel with the team for their away games. At the time of his death, Makumbe, a Norton-based businessman, was sponsoring ZIFA Northern Region Division One side Chegutu Pirates. In the mid-2000s, Makumbe bankrolled Concession-based former Northern Region Division One side, Dorking Farm, before he shifted his base to Norton where he immediately ‘’fell in love’’ with Chegutu Pirates. Chegutu Municipality spokesperson, Brian Nkiwane, who is also chairman of Chegutu Pirates, expressed shock over the death of Makumbe as it came at a time they were starting to prepare for the new season. “We are very sad as Chegutu community after the untimely death of one of our sponsors, Columbus Makumbe, whom we were engaging to come on board for this season. He was so passionate about football and, as he was still a board member of Zimbabwe Saints, his dream was to make sure that the Bulawayo-based team returns to the Premier Soccer League. “The time I came to Chegutu some two years ago, the municipality had no budget for the club but with people like Makumbe, he would make sure that the team fulfil all the fixtures. There were some players who stayed in Harare, players like Alois Matare, Khumbulani Chisami, Ngoni Mpariwa and Mandla Hove, among several others, whom he would give money to travel for football matches in Chegutu. “Things will not be the same for the club again,” said Nkiwane. Sadly, Makumbe was involved in another near-fatal accident near the same area last December and escaped unhurt. He was behind the steering wheel when tragedy struck on Tuesday afternoon, while three other occupants in the vehicle escaped with injuries. Former CAPS United goalkeeper, Brenna “Baba Gari” Msiska, who was close to Makumbe, expressed shock over the death of his friend and said he was someone who loved football with a passion. “I am saddened by the passing on of Columbus Makumbe who was now more than a family member to me. We started to get along back in the late 80s when I was still playing for CAPS United as he would travel with the team everywhere we played. “We would go as far as Hwange with him cheering the team and at times we travelled out of the country together as he loved CAPS United so much. “For his passion for football, he went on to become a Zimbabwe Saints board member and he was also actively involved with Chegutu Pirates, a team he loved so much. He would always say I will make sure Zimbabwe Saints returns to the top-flight,” said Msiska. Another former CAPS United son, Albert “Dhalala’’ Mabika, described Makumbe as a ‘’real football man’’. “I still remember during my playing days at CAPS United in the early and mid-1990s when Makumbe was just a regular feature at all our matches be it at home or away. He used to attend all our away matches together with the likes of fellow staunch CAPS United supporters Eddie ‘Mboma’ Nyatanga and Joe ‘Pajero’ Musenda. “He also didn’t miss our training sessions at Raylton Sports Club and was very close to all the CAPS United players… He commanded a lot of respect among all the players… He just loved being around the CAPS United players and was very close to the late great Joel ‘Jubilee’ Shambo… My heart breaks for his family during this difficult period,’’ Mabika said. Chegutu Pirates coach Richard Chunga, who worked with Makumbe for more than three years, expressed his sadness and said Chegutu Pirates would never be the same again following the death of the latter. “We are shocked with the untimely death of one of our supporters and main sponsor Makumbe. “I was supposed to meet him on Friday but unfortunately this has turned out otherwise. He was supportive for Chugutu Pirates, a team he has been loyal to for more than 10 years and he remained committed to the club,” said Chunga. Chegutu Pirates captain and the club’s longest serving player, Simbarashe Domingo, said he is still to come to terms with the untimely death of their sponsor Makumbe. “We are still to come to terms with the sudden death of mudhara Makumbe who was a father-figure, sponsor and  staunch supporter of Chegutu Pirates. He was someone who would make sure that the team travels for all its matches no matter how difficult it was. “It will be difficult for us without Makumbe. However, we are looking forward to do well in the upcoming season. We are hopeful we will play hard for his recognition in the coming season,” said Domingo. During his stay at Zimbabwe Saints, Makumbe worked with several players like Bekhimpilo Ncube, Mtshumayeli Moyo and Melusi Ndebele among others. Makumbe, who, at one stage, was the manager of the late legendary musician John Chibadura, is survived by several children and grandchildren. He is expected to be buried tomorrow at his family farm in Chitomborwizi.