The Herald Arts Correspondent CELEBRATED disc jockey, Tinotenda Marimo, affectionately known as DJ Rimo, has ventured into music and is set to release a single track this week. DJ Rimo rose to fame mainly through his association with the late famous socialite, Genius “Ginimbi” Kadungure, as they used to live in the fast lane, hosting the popular all white parties. The Africa social entertainment award winning DJ Rimo said he has a packed year and will for the first time headline this year’s Victoria Falls carnival. Vic Falls carnival, which is Africa’s biggest celebration of its diverse music, arts and culture and a once in a lifetime experience set in one of the seven wonders of the world, is slated for April 28 to 30. As for the new track, DJ Marimo said the fans should expect it on Friday. “2023, besides touring other countries this year, l am going to produce my own music. “My first single drops on February 3, 2023 and I am very excited and cannot wait to produce more music,” he said. DJ Rimo said for the first time, he will be rubbing shoulders with Africa’s finest DJs and artistes at the spectacular event. He said was happy to be one of the performing DJs at the carnival and has promised nothing but fireworks. “This is my first time playing at the carnival. “As a DJ playing at one of the biggest events in Zimbabwe, it’s like I won the lotto and this is an opportunity to showcase my art on the decks, not only for my fellow Zimbabweans, but for foreigners as well. “People should expect a dose of the Rimo experience. When I am on the decks, I always come with a different vibe. I am never predictable, especially during outdoor events,” he said. Talking of the auspicious Vic Falls Carnival event, DJ Rimo cited it as an experience that will “top your bucket list”, not only is the setting spectacular but the adventure non-stop. He said there will be a mix of local and international music fans. DJ Rimo was one of the best and most sought after disc jockeys in 2022. Other performing artistes at the carnival include South African electronic duo Black Motion, Anita Jaxson and Nitefreak.