The Herald China is ready to join hands with Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) countries to promote world peace and development, build a community with a shared future for mankind, and open up an even brighter future for the world, Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday. He made the remarks when delivering a video address at the seventh Summit of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), which was held in Buenos Aires, the capital of Argentina. President Xi noted that LAC countries are important members of the developing world. They also take an active part in global governance and make important contributions to it. CELAC has grown to be an indispensable driving force behind global South-South cooperation. CELAC has played an important role in safeguarding regional peace, promoting common development and advancing regional integration. Xi stressed that China always supports the regional integration process of Latin America and the Caribbean. “We highly value our relations with CELAC, and take CELAC as our key partner in enhancing solidarity among developing countries and furthering South-South cooperation. That is why China has been working with LAC countries to steadily strengthen the China-CELAC Forum and take the China-LAC relationship into a new era characterized by equality, mutual benefit, innovation, openness and benefits for the people,” he said. Xi said more and more countries in the region have engaged in high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with China, supported and participated in the Global Development Initiative and the Global Security Initiative, and are working with China in building a China-LAC community with a shared future. He stressed that the world is in a new period of turbulence and transformation. “We can only tackle the challenges and tide over this trying time through greater solidarity and closer cooperation,” he said. He added that China is ready to continue working with LAC countries to help each other and make progress together, and advocate “peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom” — the common values of mankind. – CGTN