The Herald Brandon Moyo Bulawayo Bureau WEST Indies began their preparations for the two Test cricket matches against Zimbabwe early next month by holding their first training session in Bulawayo at Queens Sports Club yesterday. Having arrived in Bulawayo on Monday afternoon ahead of the much-anticipated series, the Windies side had legend Brian Lara helping out on the batting side as their team was also reinforced by the arrival of all-rounder Jason Holder and fast bowler Alzarri Joseph. The pair, who were taking part in South Africa’s inaugural SA20 League, were, however, not part of yesterday’s session which took place in the morning, before they landed at Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo International Airport. Captain Kraigg Brathwaite, who will be playing in Zimbabwe for the third time in his career, said he is looking forward to the challenge that the home side will bring. He added that the conditions in the Southern African country are similar to those they have back in the Caribbean. “We know obviously Zimbabwe will be a very good team at home, so we look forward to the challenge. In terms of the conditions, it’s quite similar to the Caribbean, pitches are kind of slow, but the guys had a good run-up today (yesterday) and we are really looking forward to the first practice game and the Test series,” said Brathwaite. West Indies face Zimbabwe XI in a three-day warm-up fixture at Bulawayo Athletic Club from this Saturday. Brathwaite, who was named in the International Cricket Council (ICC) Test Team of the Year, said they are looking forward to an all-round performance from everyone in the Men in Maroon as they hope to get off their new year to a perfect start as they also have experienced fast bowler Shannon Gabriel back in the team. He added that having Lara as part of the technical team will be a good experience for the batsmen as they will have the chance to acquire batting knowledge from him. “Shannon is an experienced bowler, he has some pace. “We are very excited to have him back and we are looking forward to him doing well and leading this bowling attack once again. “It’s amazing to have him around (Lara) and obviously for the guys, especially batsmen, to always ask questions. We will learn a lot and we obviously can’t take it for granted, we have to ask questions, pick his brain and it will serve us well going forward,” he said. The two Test matches are scheduled for February 4-8 and 12-16 with Zimbabwe hoping to register their first Test win against West Indies, having lost seven of the 10 matches they have played before. Three of the matches were drawn. Zimbabwe and West Indies last met in this format of the game in 2017 when they squared off in Bulawayo.  The Windies won the two-match series 1-0, winning the first contest by 117 runs with the second five-day contest ending in a draw. Meanwhile, the Zimbabwe XI team that was announced yesterday will feature five players who have played the game’s longest version before alongside others who have had a good season in the ongoing 2022/23 Logan Cup season. Wessly Madhevere, Milton Shumba, Carl Mumba, Timycen Maruma and Donald Tiripano have played Test cricket before. Zimbabwe XI squad Faraz Akram, Priviledge Chesa, Tanaka Chivanga, Joylord Gumbie, Wessly Madhevere, Tanunurwa Makoni, Timycen Maruma, William Mashinge, Kudzai Maunze, Tapiwa Mufudza, Carl Mumba, Tony Munyonga, Milton Shumba, Donald Tiripano, Tafadzwa Tsiga. 