The Herald Business Reporter Zimbabwean products will soon receive global limelight in Germany, with a number of local companies set to take part in two of the biggest trade fairs in the global horticulture, arts, and craft space. Facilitated by ZimTrade with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Zimbabwean companies in the horticulture and arts and crafts sector will engage with leading buyers in Germany during the Fruit Logistica and Ambiente trade fairs, scheduled for February 3-7  and  February 8-10, respectively. The two events will provide a platform for local companies to showcase their products and conduct business-to-business meetings with potential buyers and distributors of their products in Germany, Europe, and beyond. The focus on Germany dovetails with the Second Republic’s economic diplomacy agenda that is expected to strengthen trade relations and re-integrate Zimbabwean companies into global supply chains. ZimTrade chief, Allan Majuru, said the growing participation at trade fairs in Germany is expected to unlock opportunities in the current drive by Germany to connect with business in Africa. “Germany, like the rest of the European countries, is currently on a drive to develop new business partnerships in Africa to increase total trade and investment with Africa. “We expect to see improved trade between Zimbabwe and Germany following strengthen relations between businesses in our two countries,” he said. At least 12 local companies from the horticulture industry will take part at Fruit Logistica, whilst four will exhibit Zimbabwe’s unique arts and crafts at Ambiente. Of the participating companies, three were selected from the ZimTrade cluster development programmes, which are meant to complement the Government’s devolution agenda and targeted at increasing the contribution of businesses in rural communities to national exports. Mr Majuru said the participation of rural communities in international trade fairs was expected to contribute towards improved foreign currency generated by rural families, which in turn will contribute towards better livelihoods. “The excitement generated by businesses in rural communities to participate in international trade fairs is encouraging as this will have a positive impact on their lives. “This participation where they (rural communities) will link directly with buyers in Europe will also address challenges with middle-men who are known to pay less for local products and sell at a higher cost, thus prejudicing producers of the real value of their products,” said Mr Majuru. Fruit Logistica is the world’s leading international trade fair for the fruit and vegetable industry. The event will provide Zimbabwean farmers of fruits and vegetables to engage with buyers, distributors, packagers, handling experts and other interested parties from across the world. Over 75 000 trade visitors and more than 3 000 companies are expected to participate at the event, offering a unique opportunity for Zimbabwean companies to interact with a wide network of potential business partners. With the consumer patterns in international markets shifting towards healthier eating and organic foods, local farmers are positioned to take larger market space as Zimbabwe’s non-genetically modified organism (GMO) policy means locally-grown produce are closer to what nature intended. The Zimbabwean pavilion at Fruit Logistica will showcase products which include mange tout, sugar snap peas, pineapples, fine beans, sweet potatoes, avocadoes, macadamia nuts, mangoes, baby corn and chilies. On the other hand, Ambiente trade fair is the world’s largest annual event for the arts and crafts sector which is attended by over 130 000 people from over 161 countries. The arts and crafts sector represent an untapped opportunity with potential to contribute to the growth of Zimbabwe’s exports, riding on the country’s rich cultural heritage, which is known around the world for its arts and crafts products.