The Herald Acting Entertainment Editor The year is 2023 and it is just three days old. Hail the queen of gospel music Janet Manyowa who has been bestowed with the crown and title not because of her music but investment in the gospel genre. Music is her passion and her “Midas Touch”, anyway can make one repent and think of heaven. The moments she starts singing up to the chorus, one would think Jesus is coming              down. Of course just like the adage “one man’s meat is another man’s poison,” in this case in a country which has a population of more than 13 million, it is expected that debate should explode. Last year there was debate on whether Janet Manyowa was the best female gospel musician of 2022, after she emerged the winner vigorous on popular radio station Star FM. It also did not go well with some who saw it otherwise but that for a fact the debate pushed her much anticipated show dubbed “A Night Of Thanksgiving” (ANOT) which was held on New Year’s Day. That was a good start by the way. The well organised and over-subscribed event was at the Celebration Centre in Borrowdale which saw thousands of fans attending. Who knew something good could come out of Nazareth? As the norm she used to host such events at the giant Harare International Conference Centre HICC, but for the third edition of ANOT she chose her resident church. The show started at 3pm and fans were still surging in, resulting in them opening the back of the stage for the back auditorium which had screens and the fans could also watch the show. She is in a league of her own. Among the line-up of performers at the show was South African gospel sensation Dr Tumi, Takesure Zamar, Michael Mahendere, Sharon Manyika, Tembalami and Pastor Bonnie Deuschle who put up a scintillating performance. Visiting musician Dr Tumi needs no introduction on bringing the “holier” aspect at a show. He made sure his presence was felt — the same goes for Minister Micheal Mahendere. Oh boy, the locals were well represented. The star attraction, Manyowa, dazzled, clad in a ball gown for her first set which perfectly blended with the theme and obviously this one she started with worship songs. On her second segment it was more like a gospel dance fiesta as she kept her fans on their feet. This time around she came dressed in “mahogany brown” attire with matching boots and a fedora hat. Fashion buffs were chuffed with the attire which also resonated with her tone and attitude of the set and her band members were wearing the same colour outfit with inscriptions “ThankYou”. This was the message to her fans, thanking them for 2022 and again for attending the show. It would be myopic not to talk about the epic performance of the popular song “Vaudze”, which left the crowd in awe. For now, many could agree that both venues, HICC and Celebration Centre are now too small for Manyowa considering what was witnessed on New Year. Some fans were later disappointed as they could not be accommodated resulting in them shifting what they had paid for thus from VIP to the general ticket seating so that they could also watch the performances. Considering the show was held in the church set up, some fans argued that it was not fair for them as they could not even enjoy food and drink as that was not allowed in the auditorium. It was difficult to go and eat or drink then come back because the space might be occupied then. This is something also they needed to consider. The bottom line is everyone enjoyed it but the organisers now need to do more research and homework for next edition to avoid such loopholes. It had the spark and was well organised from ushering to time keeping of artistes on stage,although it did not finish the scheduled time. Sound was perfect, no glitches as the programme flawlessly sailed through well hosted by radio personality Rebecca Muchenje affectionately known as “Miss Becky K” and Pastor Lyncs. The stage set up was amazing, not too fancy but classic with crystal like chandeliers hanging on top while the theatrical stage lights could be seen working in sequence with each performance, giving a clear light to the artistes. Indeed, she started the year on a good note, many wait for what’s in store.