The Herald LONDON. — Shakhtar’s winger Mykhailo Mudryk has agreed personal terms on a five-year contract with Arsenal. The clubs continue negotiations on the transfer of the player. Previously, the Miners  had rejected the Gunners’ previous official request for 55 million pounds. Arsenal has prepared a new, improved proposal for Mudryk. According to French news outlet Foot Mercato, Arsenal have submitted an improved offer for Mudryk. The clubs are now in discussions regarding this offer and a deal is expected to happen. A contract with the player has already been agreed. This season, Mudrik played in 18 matches for Shakhtar, scoring 10 goals and providing eight assists. The winger, along with another Gornyakov player, Anatoly Trubin,  was named to the  2022 Under-21 Team. Arsenal beat Brighton in their last match in 2022 (4-2). The Gunners lead the English Premier League with a seven-point lead over nearest rival Manchester City. In the next match, the team of Ukrainian Oleksandr Zinchenko will host Newcastle tonight. Mikel Arteta has prioritised the signing of Mudryk in the January transfer window. The English Premier League leaders have already seen an offer worth around £55million turned down by Shakhtar Donetsk. However, Arsenal seem determined to get a deal over the line. Mudryk has flirted with the idea of joining the north London club, showing himself watching the club’s last two matches on his Instagram story. It appears he is itching at the prospect of joining Arteta’s project, labelling the Spaniard a “top coach” during the 4-2 win over Brighton. And it has now been reported that a contract has been agreed. A fee is yet to be sorted with Shakhtar. However, a contract has been finalised with the winger and the Gunners are set to return with an improved offer. Mudryk (21) has made just 44 senior career appearances for Shakhtar. But his 12 goals and 17 assists so far has clearly caught the eye of Arteta. Arsenal’s interest in the player first emerged in the summer window. Mudryk shone for Shakhtar during the Champions League group stage, which led to the club slapping a price tag of around £86m (€100m) on his head. Shakhtar chiefs claimed Mudryk was worth the same amount as the likes of Manchester City star Jack Grealish and Manchester United’s Brazilian international Antony. Mudryk has spoken out against the price tag his club is demanding. English Premiership Fixtures Today: Leicester City v Fulham (9:45pm); Everton v Brighton (9:45pm); Arsenal v Newcastle (9:45pm); Manchester United v Bournemouth (10pm). Tomorrow: Southampton v Nottingham Forest (9:30pm); Leeds United v West Ham (9:45pm); Aston Villa v Wolverhampton Wanderers (10pm); Crystal Palace v Tottenham Hotspur (10pm). Thursday: Chelsea v Manchester City (10pm). — Sportarena.com