The Herald Blessings Chidakwa
Arts Reporter It probably requires divine intervention from a ‘man of God’ to resurrect the arguably ‘dead’ dendera music. A self-styled Kadoma clergyman has decided to use his mic for both preaching the gospel and reviving dendera music. For him Saturday is a day for singing what he loves best ‘dendera beat’ in hangout joints as Odyssey Hotel and Sunday dedicating it for preaching the salvation of Jesus Christ. All things being equal, dendera is a big music brand in Zimbabwe, and no one can lay claim to it except for the great Chimbetu family. The late star Simon Chimbetu, who is credited for being the founder of the timeless dendera beat started it, grew it and left a huge mark on Zimbabwe’s musical scene. Years after his demise the heritage has been made stronger by the family members and siblings trying to sustain the beat. However, if the truth be told of late, they seem to have been blowing hot and cold. This has seen other emerging artists now flocking into the dendera circles which was probably a no-go area in the yesteryears. Among them the Kadoma clergyman Charles Pintec now has five dendera albums to his name and claims he wants to keep the dendera beat alive. He is no novice having curtain raised some of the biggest showbiz events in the country including last year’s Makhadzi Show hosted in his hometown. Pintec is also scheduled to share stage with Congolese Soukus singer, Antoine Christophe Agbepa Mumba, affectionately known as Koffi Olomidé and local household musician Jah Prayzah in April. Our news crew caught up with Pintec on Tuesday who spoke about his latest eight track album titled Pressure released on December 28, 2022. Among the songs there is pressure, heartbreak, batai mbavha, kapoto, sekuru gudo, ndaramba nhamo, muroyi wemasikati and kuchema kwenherera. “On December 25, 2022 I released a single titled heartbreak just as a Christmas present to fans. The album so far for years is one of the best. “The title was motivated by unnecessary pressure being piled by people be it on social media and fashion wise. I was simply reminding people to lead their own lives living within means,” he said. Pintec said the portrayal of people on social media makes one think that they have made it in life through posts, but it is just unnecessary pressure. “One should be his or herself running own race without imitating others as there is risk of ending up in debts or dabbling in juju. “In dendera circles we are leaving a mark and doing away with some perceptions that it is a family-dominated genre,” he said. Pintec released his first album in 2009 with Gapu redendera album and took a sabbatical while pursuing his spiritual calling. “I went to bible school and returned to showbiz around 2020 with a new album, new curriculum blend, komboni yatsva which proved to be very much popular. “last year l did a series of singles which l then compiled into an album titled the platinum package some l did collaborations with the likes of Lucky Chikuwa,” he said. Pintec who leads Royal Family Synagogue Church of Mercy and Solutions in Waverly Suburb Kadoma said he is managing well to balance his dendera music and church business. “I plan my work well having time for church services. I have an office so most of the times will be preparing my message, praying for the church and doing its administration. “After that I go to rehearsals for the band.  When I released the album new curriculum I was saying the mindset of people should change. A pastor can be a soccer player or musician,” he said. Pintec said Jesus would preach in parables so it does not mean each time he should quote a verse. “I refuse to be limited by being referred to only as a pastor. So far so good people are seeing the hand of God in me,” he said. Pintec is also into gospel songs having done a collaboration with Munyaradzi Munodawafa on his latest offering. “On the song Sunungura l feature with some ‘dendera’ flair. What I am refusing is to be labeled a gospel artist only. “What is called gospel? I have no explanation for such a term. I am simply an artist. Everything that educates and entertain people,” he said. Pintec said will do anything that it takes to entertain people having some roots in acting during his school days. He was over the moon having shared stage with some of the regional artistes. “It is a dream come true sharing stage with Makhadzi and Koffi Olomide. I feel humbled many artists dream of that but only a few are chosen. “I want to applaud 2Kings Entertainment for affording me that opportunity. They have been supportive morally and financially even during my maiden days,” he said. Pintec is a father of three, Shalom, Simbiso and last born Wenyasha.