The Herald Shepherd Chimururi Youth Interactive Correspondent Let what they do technologically in China be also done here in Zimbabwe, is the popular sentiment that has emerged from students after the announcement by the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education that it is introducing technical high schools. The sentiments are based on popular belief among students that children in Chinese early childhood development centres design and manufacture small ICT gadgets we import like USB cables, remote controls, phones, powerbanks etc. Technical schools seem to be the favourite of many students as they help pupils acquire innovative industrial skills at a tender age. The life skills they get are the window of hope in terms of job creation and self sustenance. The skills are manifesting themselves in small business enterprises in Siyaso and Glen View complex. Samantha Chita, an aspiring graphic designer who recently completed A-Level studies at St Columbus High where she did computer science supported the concept of infusing STEM. “The idea of computer science technical high schools is a good one, but they must be introduced in every district to cater for all students. “If given an opportunity I would have enrolled at a school that specialises in development of softwares and manufacturing of ICT gadgets.  If that idea was implemented 10 years ago surely by now we should have the capacity to produce made in Zimbabwe ICT gadgets.” She continued, “This is also good because not everyone is academically gifted. Other students are gifted in designing, others are good at using their hands which gives everyone equal opportunities,” she said. In practical terms computer science and technology helps students address the critical societal problems like diseases, poverty, environment degradation, climate change, drought, disease, inequality, etc. In developed countries like China, South Korea and Japan, computer science and technology covers fields of specialisation like software engineering, electrical and electronics, information systems, mechanical systems engineering, and architectural design. Most high school graduates advance to technical colleges and universities which mould them into researchers or engineers. Stace Madau, a Form Three science pupil at Elite College, said she wants to have more hands-on access to computer science tools. “I think the introduction of technical schools must be done urgently before I finish school. I want to experiment with the things that I read in books. “It is my belief that education must be about reading and practicing and implementing not for grades but for production. “Why we don’t produce basic stuff in technology baffles me yet we do that in agriculture where we rear livestock for sale,” she said. Domi Chere who is an aspiring music producer, pointed out that computer science has to be made easy and applicable to the lives of young people. “Look how the Zimdancehall artistes have been saved by backyard studios. “That’s sound engineering made simple and practical. We need more tech inspired solutions. I know many students have the zeal but they need proper guidance and mentoring plus financial support to grow their ideas into start ups. This will give birth to a school musical powerhouse who can surpass Moleli and Sandringham,” he concluded. Chances also are high for the success of a locally produced app produced by our own judging by how students are participating on American and Chinese social media platforms. The introduction of computer science and technology at high school will help boost enrolment and production at local universities. So far science and computer technology is being offered at tertiary level at institutions that include University of Zimbabwe, Bindura University, Africa University, National University of Science and Technology, Harare Institute of Technology, and Chinhoyi University of Technology.