The Herald Tinashe Nyamushanya Youth Interactive Correspondent The rate of run-away children is increasing greatly. Many parents do not take into account that the transition period from childhood to adulthood is awkward for most adolescents, teenagers, and they need special attention and a delicate way of looking at their problems. Lack of attention and inability of parents to understand the problems faced by their teenage children resulted in them running away from home. In this article I’m going to highlight and explain some of the factors that can force an adolescent  being a ‘runaway’. The article is also going to focus on the solution on how to avoid the adolescent from running away. Fear of punishment Sometimes the reason for running away is fear of punishment. In many situations, the world, the security, and the stability teenagers have known seem to fall apart. No matter what their age, children appear to have some universal worries and fear of being severely punished. Another reason for running away is perceived physical or emotional abuse. Exposure to domestic and community violence is difficult to determine but children who have experienced domestic violence are at risk. They leave home looking for a better and safer environment. Lack of personal freedom Lack of personal freedom is another factor that causes children to run away. Many adolescents seem to mature more quickly than expected by their parents. Usually, parents or guardians want to retain custody of the teenager. Most of the parents do not take into account that  a teenage son or daughter needs more freedom and personal life to socialise. Their anger can be expressed in many ways, from extremely emotional to quiet resentment, and running away. The urban youth is driven by trendsetters who have a major impact on them, including apparel, footwear, drinks, and other gadgets of the entertainment industry. But if parents prohibit their children from being “fashionable” or listening to music they like, it results in rebellion and escape. Another factor is that kids often idealise running away and develop a romanticised view of life on the streets. In reality, it’s awful: you’re cold, you’re hungry and it’s dangerous, but adolescents often see it as an adventure or the key to freedom, where “No one is going to tell me what to do.” Many kids run away because of peer pressure, drug and alcohol abuse. When adolescents and pre-teens get involved in substance abuse, they may leave home to hide it so their parents don’t find out. These kids are often using a lot more than their parents know; they want to use more freely and openly, so they run away. In addition to fear or anger, feelings of failure can also cause kids to leave home. Some children run away because it’s easier to live on their own than to live in a critical home. One of the best ways to keep adolescents from running away is to teach your children problem solving skills. Ask them, “What can you do differently about this problem? What are some ways we can deal with this problem?” Always approach something as a problem that needs to be solved, and reward your child when they are able to do it successfully. As much as possible, praise your child when he or she does something positive. Remember, adolescents run away from problems they can’t handle. It’s in our culture. Adolescents often see running away as a way to achieve a sense of power and independence. They don’t understand that it’s false power and independence, however, because they can’t take care of themselves in a legitimate way on the streets. It is possible to refute these arguments stating that parents do everything possible to educate and protect their children from mistakes. Also, teens may run away to get attention and underline the importance of problems they have. On the other hand, children do not run away from home if the family establishes warm and friendly family relations. Lack of good self-image and protection are  some of the main causes of this situation.