The Herald Grace Chingoma-Senior Sports Reporter THE country’s four Divisions One football regions have requested ZIFA to defer the start of the National League to next year and urged the motherbody to observe the constitution during the implementation process. The four regional leagues, namely Central, Eastern, Northern and Southern, have written to the motherbody to express their concerns about the manner the new member is being admitted into local football structures. The regions feel that their clubs had already made contractual agreements for this season with promotion into the top-flight. Earlier this month, the association advised the regions that it had resolved to embark on the National League in line with section 10 of the ZIFA Constitution. They invited four clubs from each region to join the inaugural league. However, the manner in which ZIFA is conducting their business has irked the four regions who feel that the motherbody is flouting the constitution. The chairpersons of the four regions this week wrote a joint letter to ZIFA stating their concerns. “As the leadership of the Regional Leagues and in consultation with our respective clubs, we note with concern the apparent breach of the ZIFA constitution in the manner in which you seek to admit the National League, as a member. “Article 9 of the ZIFA constitution, deals with the Admission, Suspension and Expulsion of members, more in particular: Article 9.1 states that the Congress shall decide whether to admit, suspend or expel a Member, whereas Article 9.2 goes further to state that the admission may be granted if the applicant fulfils the requirements of ZIFA, such requirements are as enumerated in Article 10(3),” read the statement from the four regions. The regional bosses feel that ZIFA do not have to make unilateral decisions on the formation of the league as this remains the prerogative of the Congress. Instead, the regions want a steering committee that will be composed of the four regions as well as the Premier Soccer League to run the affairs of the inaugural National League. “We again wish to highlight that Article 22 set the broad parameters for the Authority of the Congress, and more specifically Article 22(i) states that the Congress has the authority to admit, suspend or expel a member. It is our observation that the above constitutional requirements have not been satisfied. “As much as we concede that the Executive Committee is clothed with powers to make decisions, Article 34(a) is very explicit that the Executive Committee shall pass decisions on all cases that do not come within the sphere of responsibility of Congress or are not reserved for other bodies by law or under these statutes. “We wish to bring to your attention that the admission of a member is a preserve of Congress, and such a decision cannot be passed by the Executive Committee. For the avoidance of doubt, Article 10 merely provides for the membership of a National League, once it has been established. “The said article must never be read to imply that it is a requirement, but merely a provision, and whose establishment must clearly follow the strict laid down guidelines, as provided for in Article 9. Given the foregoing, it is very clear that the Executive Committee is acting outside its remit without any due cause. ‘’The Regions, as members of the Congress, categorically wish to put it on record that we do not condone flagrant disregard of our constitution, and want to affirm that we expect the Executive Committee to strictly uphold the constitution and allow for due process in so far as the admission of a member is concerned,” reads the statement. The chairpersons further note that the impromptu creation of the National League will simply paralyse their clubs which will automatically become third-tier football. The clubs’ representatives reckon that clubs had signed players and entered into agreements with players to compete for league honours. “The conceptualisation and communication of such an important league must be well thought out. The Executive Committee must take the lead and avail all the necessary information, less there be more chaos in the football environment. “The creation and admission of the National League have a huge bearing on the current structures which have served our football well, and the continued existence of these lower leagues must be of paramount importance to the leadership. “There can never be any logical reason why we may want to rupture all contractual obligations which teams in the lower leagues may have entered into, be it with their players or sponsors. We have teams that have signed players on the basis that they will be playing Division One football, teams that have signed up with sponsors and drawn up budgets for regional division one football, all this and so many other social factors have to be evaluated, for the good of our game. ‘’All this catastrophe can be avoided by simply giving due notice to all clubs at the commencement of this season ahead, and defer this noble idea to next year, and in the meantime allow for the necessary preparations,” read the letter. The letter, signed by Central Region chairperson Patrick Hill, Eastern Region’s Davison Muchena, Northern Region chairman Sweeney Mushonga and Southern Region’s Andrew Tapera, also urged people at the helm of ZIFA to make sound decisions. “In conclusion, we wish to put it on record that we are fully behind the admission of the National League as a member, only in strict adherence to the provisions of our constitution and backed with sound planning. The admission of the National League will only remain relevant and beneficial to all our future generations if it is inspired by the correct motives and intentions. “In the recent past, most of our decisions have been found wanting, as they clearly show that they lacked sound thought. We implore you to apply your minds fully and halt any further damage to our fractured football ecosystem,” read the letter.