The Herald Court Correspondent A Harare man’s bid to evict his wife from the matrimonial home through a protection order had his application dismissed for lack of merit since he failed to explain how he was being abused, and the rest of the differences, such as the break-up of the marriage, were beyond the jurisdiction of a civil magistrate. Harare Civil Court magistrate Ms Tamara Chibindi yesterday threw out Aggripa Chinzo’s application against his wife Loveness Chidzurambwa. “This application is dismissed because the applicant has failed to prove or explain how he is being abused by his wife and why she should be evicted from the house. It seems the parties have serious differences that are beyond this court’s jurisdiction,” she said. Chinzou had told the court that his wife was always insulting him and he no longer wanted to see her in his house. “This ex-wife of mine abuses me, she just insults me all the time and visits me at my workplace.” He failed to explain or give examples of incidences when he was insulted using obscene language. In response, Chidzurambwa denied the allegations which she emotionally described as malicious. While sobbing she took her time explaining to the court the torture she has been going through in the marriage because of her husband. “Firstly, I am not his ex-wife. We are still married legally. Our problems worsened when he decided to shelter his 53-year-old friend at our home and this man is way older than him,” she said. She said he later connived with his friend to move away from home and started renting in the same area where they stay. In a separate incident, Chinzou then came to his matrimonial home and took away all the property when his wife was away. She recovered the property after filing a police report. “He sold our other stand and another car that we had and he never gave me a cent. He refused to take care of our child and to get the child a birth certificate,” she said. Chidzurambwa told the court that she was tired of being harassed by her husband who always fabricate issues to ensure that she is always either at the police or in court. 