The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter VETERAN CAPS United defender Marshall Machazane wants to end his career on a high. The former Highlanders and Harare City man is entering into his final year with the Green Machine after which he could consider retiring from the game. And he has already started transitioning into coaching with the hard-tackling player set for an exchange programme in Spain this month. Machazane is scheduled to leave for Spain tomorrow where he is due for an exchange programme at one of the world’s biggest clubs, Barcelona. The centre-back, who is also at home playing midfield, is studying different coaching programmes with the International Sports Science Association. He is also a holder of the ZIFA Level One Coaching Certificate. He is hoping to get an appreciation of the Barcelona coaching philosophy before he can kick-start his own coaching career. Machazane yesterday expressed excitement ahead of his trip. “I am going to Spain on Thursday where I will first have a tour of the Nou Camp and then get to know Barcelona’s philosophy first hand. “I will get to see how they do their things that side as I am preparing for my transition to coaching,” said Machazane. “I think it will be good for Zimbabwe football because when I am back I will impart the knowledge I would have gathered about Spanish football (philosophy). “I also hope that the tour will help me grow as a person and everyone aspiring to be a football coach would be inspired by this opportunity”. While Machazane, one of the most hard-working players in the local league, is already preparing for life after active play, he is hoping to cap his playing career on a high. One of the few players to have played for all the three biggest football brands — CAPS United, Dynamos and Highlanders — Machazane was part of the Green Machine side that struggled for consistence last season. “I still have a contract with CAPS United and I just want to end my career on a high that’s all I am wishing for right now. “You look at our performance last season, we were not good enough but that’s not the end of the world. We will be at our best this coming season and for me, the season will be very special,” he said. “I want to wrap up my playing career on a high. I am someone who believes that everything is possible. “I cannot say we want to win, what because that would obviously be premature. “But, we want our fans to quickly forget about the disappointment they were subjected to last year by playing good football this coming term.” Club president Farai Jere has since reassured the Makepekepe family of the good old days which he said will be back at CAPS United this year.