The Herald Kundai Marunya Arts Correspondent Aspiring young writers who took part in recently held The Tanyaradzwa Initiative inaugural essay competition weaponised their penmanship in the fight against gender based violence (GBV). Dubbed Anti-Gender Based Violence Contest, the competition which ran during the 16 days of activism against GBV received 70 entries from young people across the country and diaspora, all sharing experiences, insights and suggestions on stances to alleviate the menacing social ill. Participants were challenged to address the theme “Unite, activism to end violence against women and girls”. Tanyaradzwa Initiative executive director Tanyaradzwa Guta said GBV was one of the leading causes of mental health issues among young people. “Intimate Partner Violence is the leading form of GBV devastatingly affecting the young people in Zimbabwe,” she said. “The increased suicidal cases caused by infidelity, the leaking of intimate videos and pictures, femicides, and the widespread of sexually transmitted infections due to reproductive coercion are all evident cases of the social vices within our community. “We believe that sustainable solutions to Gender-Based Violence can only be achieved by thoroughly assessing the root causes of this problem. “Ways of alleviating and mitigating this vice will then be devised based on the root causes provided.” The competition was won by Harare Institute of Technology pharmacy student Trish Chikerema who pocketed the US$100 price money while runners up Zoleka Fuyana and Progress Mutamiri walked away with US$75 and US$50 respectively. Chikerema said she was excited to win the first prize. “I’m grateful for the organisation for this wonderful experience which spotlights one of the issues affecting young people,” she said. “I will continue working with Tanyaradzwa Initiative in spreading awareness to young women and girls.” Winners were picked by an adjudication panel consisting of local communications experts Agnes Mukonka Mujuru, Tisu Mazwi’s Fungayi Sox and multi-talented Kenyan psychologist and thought leader Madam Zipporah Nyangara Mumbi. The panel’s considerations were mainly centred on four key elements that are substantial content, good grammar, coherence, good presentation and originality. They were also looking at a clear definition of GBV, creativity and literary captivation, demonstration that the writer understands that GBV affects males too, a holistic approach to tackling the two-tier question and the thematic inclusion, exemplification and references to the Zimbabwean context while a personal assertions and convictions were required. Sox said out of the short listed 16 finalists some stood out deserving a special mention. “Allow us to acknowledge participation from Philippines courtesy of James Santiago and the sticking imagery from the creative Shayne Tafadzwa Butao of “Misodzi Village”, as well as the great presentation from Lister Chada,” he said. “Though there was more you could have done, you stood out and were unforgettable.” Founded in mid-2021, The Tanyaradzwa Initiative has been on an aggressive and impactful drive to empower women through education. The organisation is on the path to establish a solid footprint in steering positive change having undertaken various training and capacity building workshops during the course of last year.