The Herald LONDON. — Second-half substitute Riyad Mahrez earned Manchester City a 1-0 win at Chelsea on Thursday night to move to within five points of leaders Arsenal in the English Premier League football. Mahrez got on the end of a perfectly placed cross from fellow sub Jack Grealish in the 63rd minute after City upped the tempo following a lacklustre first half from the visitors. Guardiola’s half-time talk and substitutes proved the difference, because City were often outplayed in the first half despite Chelsea’s injury woes. The Spanish coach looked delighted and relieved when the final whistle went and said the team had been sloppy and slow in first half. “In the second half we were miles, miles better in every department. It’s a big result for us,” he told Sky Sports. Chelsea lost two key forwards to injury within the first 22 minutes, with former City stalwart Raheem Sterling apparently injuring a hamstring shortly after kickoff and US international Christian Pulisic taking a knock. Graham Potter’s side were already missing England full backs Ben Chilwell and Reece James as well as midfielder N’Golo Kante. Then Chelsea’s ever-present England midfielder Mason Mount failed to make the squad after an injury in training earlier this week. While City move closer to Arsenal Chelsea are stranded in unaccustomed 10th place after some poor performances under Potter. Potter might be encouraged by his young substitutes who fought hard against a powerful City side and had some bright moments with 19-year-old Carney Chukwuemeka hitting the post in the first half. But they could not get past an experienced defence, ably marshalled by John Stones. “It’s a big three points for us,” Stones said adding the side regretted dropping points in a draw against Everton in their last game. “How we especially played in the second half was brilliant.” Stones also warned Arsenal that there is ‘’still a long way to go’’ in the English Premier League title race. Guardiola’s champions — who have won four of the last five English Premier League titles — won 1-0 at Chelsea on Thursday night to cut Arsenal’s lead at the top of the table to five points after the Gunners were held to a 0-0 draw by Newcastle. Stones put in a colossus performance at Stamford Bridge, registering the most touches of any player (102), completing 98 per cent of his passes (85/87), winning all of his aerial duels (4/4), and making the most clearances of any City player. The 28-year-old England international centre-back spoke to Sky Sports following City’s crucial 1-0 victory. ‘’We don’t focus on the table, as the manager said before this game there were 66 points to play for,’’ he said. — AFP.