The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter BLACK Rhinos coach Stanford “Stix” Mutizwa has become the latest Castle Lager Premier Soccer League coach to scout for talent from the BG Sniper Choto football tournament series. The legendary midfielder has earmarked impressive teenage midfielder Tatenda Mutaya for recruitment into the army team. Mutizwa was charmed by the 19-year-old whom he has been following during the series which started last year in Wedza. And on Sunday, the gaffer, who is considered as one of the best footballers of all time, revealed he would be taking the youngster after he gave yet another stellar show in the latest edition of the series held at Mhembwe Grounds in Wedza. “Yes, I am convinced he (Mutaya) would fit well into my team. He has loads of potential and he can be turned into a massive player,” said Mutizwa. “I have seen a lot of players in this tournament who can be nurtured into stars and Mutaya is one of them. “I will continue monitoring some of them, including Courage Chakudunga and Johannes Nyahuye. “The organisers and sponsors of this tournament are doing a great job. I would like to applaud them for doing an extraordinary job because often rural talent goes to waste due to lack of exposure,” Mutizwa said. The tournament series is funded by one of Wedza’s most illustrious sons, Parkston Choto, through his BG Sniper Logistics company. Several Wedza-based teams, including Sango United, Mhembwe, Chisasike, Mhakwe and Goto, take part in this competition with Harare Select and Chinhoyi Select also participating. Tournament organiser, Brighton Choto, hailed the sponsors, BG Sniper Transport, for their continued support. “We have decided to afford talented youngsters from our previously marginalised community an opportunity to showcase themselves. “As the organiser of the BG Sniper Transport football tournament, I am happy with how things have panned out so far,” Brighton Choto said. “We held the inaugural edition of the series at St Paul’s Sango School in Wedza in May last year. “Since then, the series has become bigger and better with more and more impressive youngsters emerging. “Players like goalkeeper Allan Masaya, who was with Whahwa last season, Tadiwanashe Mhinyu (now at ZPC Kariba) and Mutaya are some of the products churned out from the series. “And to have covered such huge ground in less than a year gives us the drive to do more. “We have made it a point that we invite scouts at every turn whether we are playing in Chinhoyi, Wedza or Harare, the three places we have ordinarily hosted our tournaments. “We have realised that there is a lot of untapped talent in the rural areas. I grew up in Wedza and so did the director of BG Sniper Transport, Parkston Choto.” Brighton Choto said rural players deserve to be given a chance to showcase themselves for the ultimate benefit of the country. “The sponsor was actually a gifted footballer and with a little bit of exposure he could have made it big. “So we have decided to provide a platform for these upcoming kids to show what they can do in the presence of both local and international scouts. We are determined to help them realise their potential. “We will not stop here. We are planning to eventually start some junior leagues in Wedza where youngsters will also get an opportunity to develop their talent.”