The Herald LONDON. — The last time Arsenal won the league, it was with their awesome Invincibles. Patrick Vieira, Ashley Cole, Robert Pires, Thierry Henry, Sol Campbell and Dennis Bergkamp. Close on 600 caps between them, yet just a few of the legends available to Arsene Wenger for that remarkable 2003/04 campaign. Now, 19 years on, Kieran Tierney finds himself following in their giant footsteps as a key part of a Mikel Arteta-led Gunners squad looking so commanding at the top of the English Premier League. The Scot admits he’s dreaming of securing his own place in Arsenal’s history books as a title winner. But even if they do finally end  that  agonising wait for a 14th crown, there is no chance Scotland star Tierney will ever see himself on a par with Wenger’s greats. As he prepares to face Erik ten Hag’s rejuvenated Manchester United at the Emirates tomorrow, Tierney, a four-time champion with Celtic, told SunSport: “We’re in the hunt for everything. “Every competition, we want to go as far as possible — and the league’s no different. “We want to win everything we’re taking part in. “The boys have got a lot of confidence, but we also know how hard our league is to win. “It’s about being the most consistent team over 38 games. “We’re under no illusion it’s going to be the hardest second half of a season we’ll have. But we’re up for it. “Coming down here, my objective was to be a winner and I was lucky enough to win the FA Cup.  “But you always want to win the league, you always want to say you’ve done this and you’ve done that. “What a remarkable achievement it would be. Again, though, it’s a long way away yet. We’re in a great position to go on and do it and  finish the season strongly. “However, the teams fighting for this title are some of the best in the world, teams willing to go and spend crazy amounts of money. “That’s how big this league is. Every team, every owner, wants to win the title. “So it’s one of the biggest challenges in football.  “But I wouldn’t have joined Arsenal if I didn’t have dreams and aspirations to do that. “When you mention names like Henry, Bergkamp and Vieira, I see them as legends.  — The Sun. 