The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal face a stern test of their English Premier League football title credentials against Manchester United this weekend as Liverpool and Chelsea meet in a clash of two clubs desperate to escape mid-table obscurity. At the bottom, Frank Lampard takes Everton to face David Moyes’ West Ham, with both managers under intense pressure as the relegation trap door looms. Arsenal v Manchester United used to be the match that defined the English Premier League, pitting Arsene Wenger against Sir Alex Ferguson in a rivalry for the ages. In recent years the game has been reduced to a sideshow, but there is a growing sense leaders Arsenal can end a wait of nearly two decades to be crowned English champions, while United are a rising force under Erik ten Hag. Mikel Arteta’s young team are now clear favourites to claim Arsenal’s first English Premier League crown since the 2004 “Invincibles”. The Gunners have more points at this stage of a league season than ever before and are benefiting from the stumbles of those beneath them, particularly the inconsistency of champions Manchester City. Aside from the game against United and a match against City in February, Arsenal’s league fixtures over the next two months look kind. Even so, Arteta believes a successful title tilt will “demand almost perfection”. Eight points behind Arsenal, Ten Hag’s men travel to the Emirates Stadium without suspended midfielder Casemiro after the Brazilian was booked in the frustrating midweek draw at Crystal Palace. After nearly two decades of sparring for silverware, the startling declines of Liverpool and Chelsea will be laid bare when they meet at Anfield today. Just last season, Liverpool came within touching distance of an unprecedented quadruple, while Chelsea were winners of the FIFA Club World Cup. Liverpool finished second in the English Premier League and Chelsea came third, with the Reds beating the Blues in both the FA Cup and League Cup finals. Those battles will seem like distant memories this weekend as ninth-placed Liverpool host 10th-placed Chelsea. English Premiership Fixtures Today: Liverpool v Chelsea (2:30pm); Bournemouth v Nottingham Forest (5pm); Leicester City v Brighton (5pm); West Ham v Everton (5pm); Southampton v Aston Villa (5pm); Crystal Palace v Newcastle (7:30pm). Tomorrow: Manchester City v Wolverhampton Wanderers (4pm); Leeds United v Brentford (4pm); Arsenal v Manchester United (6:30pm). Monday: Fulham v Tottenham Hotspur (10pm). — AFP.