The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter THEY might be Castle Lager Premier Soccer League newboys but Simba Bhora appear determined to make a huge statement of intent in their debut season. The Shamva-based outfit have resolved to blend youth and experience both in the administrative corridors and on the playing field. This comes as Simba Bhora have fashioned a reunion of coach Tonderai Ndiraya and chairman Isaiah Mupfurutsa just over a month after the duo was sent packing by Dynamos. Exciting times appear in store on the pitch for the Premiership debutants amid revelations that they have snapped up Zimbabwe international winger Talent Chawapiwa, who has been lured back home from the South African top-flight. The former Amazulu winger headlines a list of new players that also have Blessing Moyo, who is coming in from FC Platinum, ex-CAPS United Valentine Musarurwa, Partson Jaure, Keith Murera, Vassilli Kawe from ZPC Kariba and the Bulawayo Chiefs duo of Hugh Chikosa and Arthur Musiyiwa. The club is looking at signing four more players, including a goalkeeper and left back, before they wrap-up their business in the transfer the market. Yesterday, the club owner, Simba Ndoro, told The Herald that they are simply beefing-up their squad and the administration set-up so that they survive relegation. “The thing is we are trying to fight relegation. History has shown that newly-promoted clubs most of them are relegated in their first year in the league. So we are beefing-up our squad and we have offered a number of players contracts, ranging from one year to two years. “I have retained 15 players from the last year’s squad. “Mr. Isaiah Mupfurutsa is now the chairman of our club. We chose him because of his experience. As I said, we are beefing-up in all the areas. We are trying to survive and maybe if it’s doable, win the league title,” said Ndoro. The Simba Bhora boss said the massive clear out is a football decision they made in order to get the best from all the players at the club. “In Zimbabwean football, there are no sponsors, we are the sponsors as club owners. So if you feel that this player is no longer giving you value for money, you would rather pay someone who can deliver better. There is no sentimental value in football. It’s purely business. In football players come and go. We still have some players that we had when we were in Division Two,” said Ndoro. He said the club was forced to release some players since they had a huge playing complement of more than 40 players last season. “Remember last year we had more than 40 players. We had to add more players during the transfer window to fight off the stiff competition we were facing from other teams such as Golden Eagles. When the Division One league started, we underestimated its competitive nature, and halfway through we had to boost our squad, bringing in more competitive and experienced players. But the old players had contracts and we had to honour them so we continued giving them salaries since couldn’t loan out everyone,” he explained. “But now we are in the Premiership, we cannot manage with such a (big) number in a league that is costly, so we are releasing some of the players but we agreed to leave at least 15 players that were with us last year,” Ndoro said. Players being released for playing less than 10% of our 2021/2022 Ruyamuro Northern Region Soccer League1. Wilson Changani, Langton Chavinda, Brian Kativhu, Mashet Jakarasi, Kudakwashe Brown, Nigel Tinarwo, and Blessing Mukoko. Players being released for other reasons. Dexter Phiri, Hardlife Zvirekwi, Kumbirai Kapikinyu and Genius Saukila. Player who requested to be released from contract. Ronald Chitiyo