The Herald MELBOURNE. — Nine-time champion Novak Djokovic made a perfect return to the Australian Open tennis tournament as he beat Roberto Carballes Baena in straight sets in the first round yesterday. Djokovic (35) began his quest for a men’s record-equalling 22nd major with a 6-3, 6-4, 6-0 win over the Spaniard. The Serb received a warm reception on Rod Laver Arena in his first match at the tournament since his controversial deportation last year. He will play Bolivian Hugo Dellien or French qualifier Enzo Couacaud next. “I’m very happy I am back in Australia, and on the court where I had the biggest successes of my career,” Djokovic said. “This court is the most special court and I couldn’t ask for a better start for the tournament.” Djokovic was unable to compete at last year’s event after the Australian government cancelled his visa because of his Covid-19 vaccination status. But the former world number one said the welcome he received during a practice match with home favourite Nick Kyrgios in Melbourne last week made him feel “emotional”. The reigning Wimbledon champion is looking to make up for lost time as he pursues Rafael Nadal’s record of 22 Grand Slam titles, having also missed last year’s US Open because of the United States’ travel restrictions. Once again receiving warm support from the crowd, Djokovic proceeded to expertly dismantle world number 75 Carballes Baena’s game in a little over two hours. Although he warmed up for the first Slam of the year by winning the Adelaide title, Djokovic has been managing a hamstring injury and took to the court with heavy strapping on his upper left leg. But he did not appear limited by the problem and, sparking into action to save three break points in the fifth game of the match, went on to demonstrate his class on his favourite court in a near-perfect third set which saw him lose just four points in the final six games. It extended his remarkable winning streak at the Australian Open to 35 matches — a run stretching back to 2018 – and the manner of the victory suggests he will be difficult to stop once again. — BBC Sport