The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Swimming chairperson Zanele Nkomazana has said they are looking forward to learning from their counterparts Swimming South Africa as they seek to improve the sport in the country. They have invited Swimming South Africa president Alan Fritz for a visit during the Zimbabwe Senior National Championships that begin tomorrow in Bulawayo. The competition will take place at the City Pool and run until next week Monday. Fritz, who is the guest of honour at this year’s edition of the Senior National Championships, is expected in the country on Friday morning. He will attend the official opening later in the day and present on a number of topics at the Zimbabwe Swimming symposium on Saturday. “Swimming South Africa is a leading Aquatic Federation in the region and in the continent. They are amongst the top swimming countries in the world. It is part of their strategy to work with the region to improve so that there is competition amongst member countries. “Mr Alan Fritz will share knowledge with the Zimbabwe swimming community on the topics of leadership, cooperate governance and the structure of the aquatics federation. His two-day visit will also strengthen the relationship between Zimbabwe Swimming and Swimming South Africa. “We believe a good athlete comes out of good leadership,” Nkomazana said. Zimbabwe have had their swimmers competing in the South Africa Junior and Senior Championships over the years. “South Africa has for years accommodated us in their national events and we are forever grateful. We, however, need to up our game. The goal being to assist our swimmers achieve world and Olympic qualification times. We can only humble ourselves and learn from the best. “Zimbabwe has talent. We will nurture it. Results will soon show,” said Nkomazana. Harare, Midlands, Manicaland, Mashonaland Country Districts, Matabeleland South, Matabeleland North and hosts Bulawayo have confirmed their participation at this weekend’s event in Bulawayo. Swimmers will be chasing qualification for various competitions lined up for the year while those that have already qualified will get the chance to measure their preparedness in a competitive environment. “Every event and every year there is always qualifying times that swimmers chase. Most importantly we have newcomers in the senior league who bring in competition amongst our athletes. “We have 275 swimmers competing and this is the biggest number in the history of these championships. Over 100 are travelling to South Africa Level One and Three age-group championships next month. About 20 to the South Africa Junior National Championships and 10 to the senior nationals. “Most of these swimmers achieved times at the AUSC (African Union Sports Council) Region Five Games in Malawi last year. “Besides the South African National galas, we will be sending strong teams to Cana Zone IV in Malawi, in April, African Games in Ghana, in August, Africa Aquatics Swimming Championships in Sudan, in September and World Championships in Japan in July,” said Nkomazana. Bulawayo Amateur Swimming Association chairperson Phawulani Ngwenya said they are ready to host the competition. Ngwenya is confident of a competitive event and Bulawayo retaining the aggregate trophy, which is determined by dividing the total number of points for each province by the number of swimmers each province would have fielded. This allows organisers to assess the depth of each province in terms of their swimmers and Bulawayo have over the years stood their own despite having limited numbers than Harare. “So in terms of athletes, Bulawayo as a general principle, our strategy as Bulawayo is always that we must win the aggregate championship because that actually just shows quality of the squad. “We don’t go for numbers, we go for quality and also the fact that we generally have got lesser numbers than Harare, it’s impossible to compete with them on the overall championship. They take that because obviously they garner more points because they have got more swimmers,” said Ngwenya. Harare are the title holders of the championships.