The Herald MANCHESTER. — Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola claimed his squad depth is the lowest in the English Premier League after Sunday’s 3-1 victory over Aston Villa left his side just three points off the top. Goals by Rodri and Ilkay Gundogan and a penalty by Riyad Mahrez sealed a 3-1 win at the end of a week in which the champions were charged with more than 100 cases of alleged financial wrongdoing by the English Premier League. City have spent close to two billion pounds on players since Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed al-Nahyan became owner in 2008 — winning six Premier League titles in that time. Guardiola’s current squad is valued at €1.05 billion by website transfermarkt and on Sunday he started with the likes of England internationals Kalvin Phillips and Phil Foden and Argentina striker Julian Alvarez on the bench. Yet the Spaniard claimed he is working with a squad of less than 20 players as they chase league leaders Arsenal and attempt to win the Champions League for the first time. “We have just 18, 19 players. Our depth is so, so small, maybe the smallest one in the Premier League by far,” Guardiola told Sky Sports. “It’s important that we don’t have injuries but we have an incredible methodology for training to manage the fatigue and avoid injuries. “We have incredible doctors and physios and everyone. I fight for that for many years.” City will face an independent commission to answer 115 charges brought by the English Premier League, dating back to 2009. If found guilty City, in the worst case scenario, could face a points deduction or even be relegated with Guardiola saying this week that the club had already been “condemned’’. Despite the cloud hanging over the club, reigning champions City have the chance to knock Arsenal off the top of the league standings when the sides meet in London tomorrow night. “Arsenal have a game in hand. We will see after all the games when the Premier League is finished,” Guardiola said of the title battle with Mikel Arteta’s side. “But we are going to London to try and get a win. When one team has made 50 points in the first leg it is because they are very good. We closed the gap today because the performance from the team was really, really good.” Guardiola declared that Manchester City’s stars are finally back firing during training after a prolonged malaise. The City boss, who is hopeful Erling Haaland will prove his fitness for tomorrow night’s clash at Arsenal after picking up a thigh problem during Sunday’s victory over Aston Villa, has been critical of his squad since the World Cup. Guardiola has not seen the focus and desire required during training, with City having lost three times in January, and made several references to the body language of his players. “The way we have been in the training over the last week or 10 days, we have improved a lot,’’ said Guardiola. “Everyone is so focused. Kyle Walker is back with the way he’s behaving. The same with many players.’’ Joao Cancelo left City just under a fortnight ago, moving to Bayern Munich on loan. Guardiola added: “Behaving well is the only chance to be competitive. That doesn’t make it easier for you to win but without that it’s impossible.’’ Haaland was sacrificed as a precaution at half-time after an impact injury when colliding with Villa goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez. The 31-goal striker had been overlooked to take a penalty, converted by Riyad Mahrez, before being replaced. “At half-time I spoke to the doctors and they said not to take a risk at 3-0,’’ said Guardiola. “If the result was tighter then maybe I don’t do it. I don’t think he’s too injured but if he’s not ready, or if it’s too much of a risk, he will not play against Arsenal.’’ On the discussion surrounding the penalty taker, Guardiola said: “Normally Erling takes it. I wanted that. Riyad always tries to do it, Rodri was involved. There is one who is the main player, which is Erling. We will talk about that tomorrow.’’ — AFP