The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter THE 2023 edition of the Mutupo/Isibongo Golf Tournament was launched at Royal Harare in Harare yesterday. The tournament, which will be running for the second year, will see 11 events played across the nine provinces with the opening event set for Royal Harare on February 17. Mutupo/Isibongo Tournament will run as a league with each totem getting points from the top four players in each event. Surrey Abattoirs, Proton and Lake Harvest remain some of the major sponsors and their representative, Ranganai Zihumo, who is the Surrey Abattoirs group marketing manager, confirmed their continued support for the tournament. “We are glad to be here and we are happy that Mutupo/Isibongo Golf Tournament is back – big and better. “As partners in their maiden year, we are happy that Surrey Abattoirs, Proton and Lake Harvest will continue with their partnership with the tournament’s organisers. We have seen that the tournament gives us identity and it promotes respect between golfers. To be associated with the tournament is positive for us as organisations and we are happy that it is now going to other provinces. “We have been here before and the organisers have done well to represent us as their sponsors,” said Zihumo. Tournament director, Ephraim Mashingaidze, said the event will begin and end in Harare with 11 events lined-up. “We are happy that we have managed to bring on board several partners who have pledged to support us. The event went on well last year where we had five tournaments in different towns and cities. “We are also looking forward to introduce the tournament to some junior golfers as it is prudent for young players to know the importance of their totems. The tournament brings with it identity and respect between golfers as well and an opportunity to socialise and open business opportunities. “This year we have spread the tournament’s wings to nine provinces with the exception of Matabeleland North only. Already, the first event has received some positive responses as the field is almost fully subscribed,” said Mashingaidze. Last year’s tournament was won by the Shiri/Hungwe totem after they edged Moyo and several others and their representative, Ishmael Chibvunye, said they are ready to defend their title and has called on golfers to join the fun. “I am happy that we have an opportunity to defend our title and we are looking forward to the tournament. There is a lot of competition but we are ready to defend our title. The tournament is good for us as it opens up business opportunities and make friends as well,” said Chibvunye. Mutupo/Isibongo 2023 schedule February 17 Royal Harare, March 25 Bindura Golf Club, April 28 Bulawayo Country Club, June 17 Hwange Golf Club, July 22 Gweru Golf Club, August 5 Marondera Golf Club, September 2 Masvingo Golf Club, October 28 Hillside Golf Club, November 24 and 25 Police Golf Club.