The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter THE Government has hailed the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for bringing in technical sport experts to help improve performance by Zimbabwean athletes. Three experts, who came through the Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers (JOCV), have been in the country for the past 16 months assisting in coaching judo, baseball and physical education. And the Government has been elated with that gesture, given notable improvement in performance by local sportspersons. Speaking during the handover ceremony of 100 jodogis (judo kits) to the Judo Association of Zimbabwe, which was donated by the Kodokan Judo Institute of Japan at the Japanese Embassy in Harare yesterday, Minister of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Kirsty Coventry, saluted the cooperation between the two countries. “I am really delighted to be part of this exciting and refreshing event convened to appreciate Kodokan Judo Institute of Japan for donating judo kits to the Judo Association of Zimbabwe. “The Ministry is pleased with the donation as it enhances sport development, judo in particular. The donation will go a long way to promote judo in the country,” said Coventry. “Through continuous practice, we hope that this will bring back the glorious days of Zimbabwean Judo which were shown by judokas like Debbie Warren-Jeans who competed in the middleweight event at the 1992 Summer Olympics. “We are pleased to note that Japan seeks to promote judo in Zimbabwe by the annual Japanese Ambassador Judo Tournament. “Through your donation we will be able to promote fitness and wellness through physical activity and it will help to reduce the rate of youths spending much time on illicit behaviour, drug and substance abuse. “Let me take this opportunity to thank the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for bringing in young sports technical experts called Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers (JOCV) in various sports, including judo. Your act of kindness will help to brighten the future of judo and other sport codes in Zimbabwe.” The Japanese Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Satoshi Tanaka, expressed satisfaction over which the JAZ are conducting their business. “I am delighted to present this gift of 100 sets of brand new judo uniforms or judogi to the Judo Association of Zimbabwe on behalf of the Kodokan Judo Institute in Tokyo. “I am encouraged by how much the JAZ and the Ministry are doing to promote and decentralise the sport in Zimbabwe. Now there is even a judo club at Tongogara Refugee Camp in Chipinge District,” he said. “And last year a JICA judo expert, Reiji Masuda, came to Zimbabwe to assist JAZ as a technical advisor. I’m sure that judokas here are benefiting greatly from his kind coaching, and more and more people are being encouraged to start this great sport. “This year again, we will organise the annual Japanese Ambassador’s Judo Tournament. I was very glad to see so many judokas at last year’s tournament, ranging from very young children to adults, and I really enjoyed the exciting matches. “This donation will allow many more people to practice judo properly kitted out in judogi. I’m sure the judogi will give them added motivation and determination, so they will practice even more diligently and become stronger. “I hope that their skills will increase dramatically. Maybe they will even compete in an international tournament, wearing a judogi from Kodokan.” JAZ president, Smart Deke, hailed the gesture and said the kits will go a long way in promoting the growth of the sport in the country. “Look, this sport is growing from strength to strength every day. And to receive this kind of support is even more encouraging,” said Deke. “Recently our judokas participated in the African Union Sports Council Region 5 Games in Malawi and managed to win three medals — two bronze and a silver. “We are looking at sending more participants to the African Games in Ghana in August and more athletes in other international events. “We are also trying to build our own dojo where we can train and host other countries as well.”