The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter NEWLY-PROMOTED Premiership football side Simba Bhora are progressing well in terms of their pre-season preparations. The Shamva-based side commenced preparations for their maiden appearance in the top-flight league under new coach Tonderai Ndiraya a few weeks ago with friendly matches against Manica Diamonds and Black Rhinos. And the club’s spokesperson Charles Nyatsime believes the team is doing well and they are looking forward to the upcoming season. “I think we are on the right path in as far as the pre-season is concerned. “We have signed some players who were recommended by the technical team and we are working with them. “There has been a lot of player movement during the off-season period and we are now working on the right combinations such that we have a complete team when the season kicks-off. “At the moment I think we have a good team and I think there can only be one of two additions before the season begins. The coaches are still working on the combinations and it is pointing out that everything is going on well,” said Nyatsime. Ahead of the upcoming season, Simba Bhora coach Ndiraya had a massive clear out of the players who did duty for the Shamva-based side when they won the Northern Region Soccer League title last year. Seasoned defender Brighton Tuwaya, who was the team captain last season, Hardlife Zvirekwi, left back Dexter Phiri, midfielders Langton Chavinda and Raphael Manuvire and veteran striker Honey Chimutimunzeve were some of the players that were dumped by Ndiraya when he took over the hot seat at Simba Bhora. Former Dynamos and CAPS United player Ronald Chitiyo also found his way out after he asked to be excused so that he could attend to some family issues. Simba Bhora have, in an attempt to strengthen their squad for the PSL campaign, brought on board former Dynamos duo of Partson Jaure and Keith Murera, while former FC Platinum midfielder Blessing Moyo has also signed for the Shamva side. Also on Ndiraya’s books is former Warriors speed merchant Talent Chawapiwa, who has joined on a two-year deal. Bulawayo Chiefs’ Arthur Musiyiwa and former CAPS United defender Valentine Musarurwa are also part of Ndiraya’s new recruits.