The Herald Yeukai Karengezeka-Arts Correspondent Social media has been pivotal in exposing the budding talent of the crop of producers and actors in the local film industry, Botswana-based Zimbabwean veteran film producer and scriptwriter Enock Chihombori has said. Chihombori, who is also an actor, ranks among the top film producers and scriptwriters in Zimbabwe. He boasts of a number of projects such as the television comedy “Gringo” and the Gringo cartoon character in newspapers. In the drama “Gringo”, Chihombori acted as Toby Waters and would often leave the audience in stitches due to his acting prowess, always at the receiving end of Gringo’s antics. Unlike in the yesteryears where the traditional media was the major source of showcasing one’s talent, social media has changed the narrative. There seems to be a high uptake of social media, with many producers now releasing their productions and skits through online platforms. The Government has never relented to social media, but is complementing it through opening airwaves, with several television stations now on-air, thus widening platforms for talented actors and producers to shine. In an interview, Chihombori said that the game had changed, with youths adopting new technologies to exhibit their talent. “I applaud what social media has done to uplift and expose hidden talent that might have otherwise failed to be recognised on traditional channels,” he said. “It is good that people in general and particularly artists are taking up the opportunity to exploit social media and move along with current trends.” Chihombori said social media was taking up a huge chunk of any average viewer’s time, implying the viewers were spending less time on television and other traditional film outlets. He bemoaned lack of funding that has affected veteran seasoned producers to continue producing soaps and dramas on traditional channels. Chihombori said seasoned producers might not be inclined to produce skits as a way of remaining relevant to the film industry. “One of the major reasons why some content producers are shunning the industry is due to the fact that the Zimbabwe film industry has not accorded them conducive platforms to showcase their products,” he said. “Seasoned producers might not be inclined to produce skits as a way of remaining relevant to the film industry. Other major players need to come in with solid financial backing.” Chihombori is assisting the late Gringo’s son Taurai Lazarus Boora with his productions. He released his first feature film, Gringo Troublemaker in 2003, but it was heavily pirated and it left him counting the losses.