The Herald BIRMINGHAM. — Oleksandr Zinchenko insists Arsenal can achieve “everything they want” after Mikel Arteta’s side twice came from behind to beat Aston Villa 4-2 and reignite their English Premier League football title hopes on Saturday. The Gunners scored twice in stoppage time to return to the top of the table and end a run of three games without a win. Ollie Watkins gave Villa an early lead and Philippe Coutinho, making his first English Premier League start under former Gunners boss Unai Emery, added a second after Bukayo Saka equalised. Zinchenko then restored parity on the hour, before the drama kicked into overdrive with two stoppage-time goals — an own goal from Emi Martinez after Jorginho’s strike hit the bar, and a breakaway finish from substitute Gabriel Martinelli. “From this game I would like to say two things,” Zinchenko told BT Sport afterwards. “First, we took an unbelievable lesson for all of us that we need to believe until the very end. “Like I said in the past, this group has such amazing people, can achieve everything they want if we are going to keep fighting and keep believing. The reaction from all of us in the second half is a perfect way to go. “We would like to go in the dressing room as soon as possible but there are still a lot of games to play and we just need to keep going, keep fighting and keep believing we can do everything.” As Zinchenko said, the Gunners learned a lesson — they are capable of finding strength and belief as the title race heats up. Perhaps the most impressive thing was that Arsenal didn’t panic. Chances came and went in the second half, and Villa carried a threat of their own, but the Gunners kept pushing and probing until they found the decisive goals. It is also worth noting that they did so with Thomas Partey and Gabriel Jesus, two of their most important players, still sidelined. Other key players, like captain Martin Odegaard and Saka, stepped up and took responsibility. This team clearly understands Arteta’s approach and what he wants, and their togetherness is evident. Former England midfielder Fara Williams told BBC Radio 5 Live the result was huge for Arsenal, who showed that their youth doesn’t necessarily equate to naivety. “It’s massive for this young group of players at Arsenal. To overcome defeat in the manner they did, to bounce back after a midweek game away (against Manchester City) at Villa is difficult,” she said. “Winning the game in the second half is difficult. To get that win in the second half will be pleasing for Arteta and Arsenal.”  — BBC Sport