The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter THE Davis Cup World Group II Play-off between Zimbabwe and Uruguay is set to go into the second extra day after rain returned yesterday and interrupted the decisive reverse singles match at Harare Sports Club. The last match between Courtney Lock and Uruguay’s Ignacio Carou, which is expected to determine the winner, could not be completed again yesterday due to bad weather conditions, with the teams tied 2-2. This tightly contested Davis Cup tie took off on Friday and was supposed to conclude on Saturday with the doubles and reverse singles. However, the tie will now stretch into the fourth day. The match was first disrupted on Saturday with Ignacio one set up after taking the first set 6-3. Both players had won a game each in the second set before play was called off on Saturday. It was rescheduled to continue yesterday at 11am but there was a two-hour delay due to the rain. When it eventually got underway at 1pm, Lock put up a good fight to claim the second set 6-3 and push the match into the third set. But the heavens opened up again and play was eventually called off after both players had won a game apiece in the third set. Zimbabwe captain Takanyi Garanganga remained positive, though. “Of course rain delays are not always easy. I think at the beginning it was threatening to rain, we were down a set, we managed to sort of stay in the match…and then it started raining. “I think what also happens when you play matches you might have a strategy in the beginning on paper but when you get into a match, even if you know what to do you still have to kind of get used to how the guy’s ball is actually coming, it’s not theoretical. “So that has now given us time to kind of really go on honing what we need to do because he has the feel of the match, he knows where he is getting a hit, he knows where he is winning points…so that’s the good part about playing and stopping. “But at the same time, when you have the momentum you want to keep playing. So the frustrations are there but there are also some positives. “The negative is when you have momentum you would like to finish the match,” said Garanganga. His counterpart from Uruguay Enrique Perez-Cassarino said it was unfortunate they could not finish the tie yesterday but they have to be ready for today. “It’s bad for everyone, for the people who are working at the event, for both teams, for the fans, for everyone. “But it happens, it’s not the first time in my case that I have a situation like that. “Unfortunately, today (yesterday) we didn’t have the chance to finish the match. And so we have to be ready one more time for tomorrow.” The two teams ended the opening day tied 1-1.  On the second day, on Saturday, Zimbabwe’s Benjamin Lock and Courtney Lock lost the doubles 2-6, 4-6, to Uruguay’s pair of Martin Cuevas and Ariel Behar, allowing the visitors to take a 2-1 lead. However, Benjamin Lock levelled the score when he overcame Martin Cuevas 6-4, 6-4 in the first reverse singles to keep Zimbabwe on course. Courtney Lock is now carrying Zimbabwe’s hopes in this decisive match. There will be free entry for the match today and it starts at 11am.