The Herald Shepherd Chimururi Youth Interactive Correspondent Computer skills form the backbone of Continuous Assessment Learning Activity (CALA). Common consensus among students is that if you have computer skills and know how to research on the internet your CALA project will be easy to research, model and present. On the flip side, if the learner does not know how to do internet research and data presentation then automatically CALA will be complicated because you will either rely on parents, shop assistants at internet cafes or teachers. CALA is a learning activity or assessment that requires learners to perform, demonstrate their knowledge, understanding and proficiency. CALAs examine three domains – the cognitive domain, which is the knowledge domain that has always been examined as well as the psycho-motor and affective domains. In an interview with Youth Interactive, Shayne Maronda, an ordinary level student at a private school said he was enjoying CALA. “The introduction of CALA’s has helped us learners to embrace technology. Nowadays learners are able to research on their own using ICT tools,” he said. “One of the major tools we have used mainly for research purposes is the popular search engine Google. On presentation we use PowerPoint which is part of Microsoft packages.” Maronda said one could not produce a CALA project without researching on the internet and more importantly you need ICT resources to produce a model. “Instead of making a model of a cardboard box to make a model you can use a 3D model and print it.  3D printers make it easy to produce models for water purification, solar lamp, drone, solar powered car, etc,” he said. “Where the school is resourced a topic like communication with the students, they learn how to make a 3D model of a drone or a radio. They learn how to use multimedia to do presentations of their work using PowerPoint presentations using audios, images and videos.” Praise Ncube, a learner at Luveve Academy, shared a few tips on how to win the struggle against CALAs. “We have covered a few topics, one being databases using Microsoft office access, programming using Scratch, a tool that has also helped us understand coding If you want to excel in CALAs,” said Praise. “I advise my fellow students to attend all ICT lessons in the school, to be in good books with your ICT teacher and make good use of the ICT tools. But you must guard against the temptation to abuse the internet. “Above all, if your parents are not tech savvy, be proud to teach them the skills you have acquired from doing the CALAS. One day they will help them.” However, the road to acquiring digital skills and resources to produce quality CALAs is proving difficult according to Shima Ncube, a form two student at Mukondwa Secondary school in Wedza. “The reason CALAs are proving difficult for us is that most rural schools do not have wi-fi and internet services are non-existent in surrounding areas,” he said. “Even though we have benefited from skills on how to structure a questionnaire and how to conduct interviews, the skills are beneficial before going to college but the truth remains all subject CALAs demand use of digital skills.” Shima said they had many challenges they faced as learners in doing ICT based CALAs as most of the learners did not have ICT gadgets like compatible cell phones or laptops. He said in addition, some learners did not have the knowledge on how to use ICT tools, while poor internet or unavailability of data at home was another huge challenge coupled with electricity blackouts. “Sometime we are forced to sleep late waiting for electricity to be restored, hence we get to school the following day very tired,” he said. “It becomes worse if the teacher and the parents at home are computer illiterate too. “Some of our teachers lack the necessary skills and when learners seek assistance we are brushed aside or given difficult times. Then there is the exorbitant printing of images which is an extra cost as well. Owning an adequate storage device like a USB flash disk is not easy.”