The Herald LONDON. — Tragic Christian Atsu was scheduled to fly out of Turkiye just hours before the devastating earthquake in the region, but changed his mind after scoring a last-minute winner. It was confirmed on Saturday morning that Ghanaian footballer Atsu was killed by the earthquake, which has claimed more than 45 000 lives and injured thousands more. Millions of people have been left without water, electricity and heating in southern Turkiye and northern Syria. The disastrous event happened on Monday, February 6. Atsu played for Hatayspor in their Turkish Super Lig clash against Kasimpasa the night before the earthquake and scored a 98th-minute winner, which encouraged him to cancel his 11pm flight and stay in Turkey. Atsu, who spent much of his career in the English Premier League, was planning on visiting his family but delayed his journey after his dramatic goal. Hatayspor’s administrative manager Faith Ilek revealed the tragic turn of events during a recent interview. “He didn’t play against Gaziantep FK, but scored a last-minute goal in the Kasimpasa match,” Ilek told Turkish outlet Radyospor before Atsu’s death was confirmed. “Actually, he was going abroad to visit his family. But when he played well and scored, he cancelled his ticket. The earthquake happened on his happiest day. He had a flight at 11pm. Cancelled the ticket. There was an earthquake at 4am. Absolutely a tragedy.” Atsu, who signed for Hatayspor last September, was reported as missing within hours of the earthquake. Hatayspor had initially announced that Atsu was found alive and pulled from the rubble on Tuesday, February 7 — yet this was retracted two days later. Atsu played for the likes of Porto, Chelsea, Everton, Bournemouth and Newcastle during his career. He also won 65 senior caps for Ghana and helped his country reach the final of the Africa Cup of Nations in 2015 — earning him the Player of the Tournament award. Tributes have flooded in for Atsu since his passing was confirmed. “Everyone at Tottenham Hotspur is deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Christian Atsu,” tweeted Spurs. “Our thoughts and condolences are with his friends and family at this incredibly sad time.” Atsu joined Chelsea from Porto in the summer of 2013. The Blues tweeted: “Everyone at Chelsea Football Club is devastated to learn of the tragic passing of our former player, Christian Atsu. Our thoughts go out to his family and friends.” The Ghanaian spent the 2014/15 campaign on loan at Everton, where he made 13 appearances. The Toffees tweeted: “We are deeply saddened by today’s news that Christian Atsu has been found dead following the earthquake in Turkey earlier this month. “Our thoughts are with his family, friends, colleagues at Hatayspor and everyone affected by this tragic event that has claimed so many lives.” Atsu also enjoyed a six-month loan spell at Bournemouth, where he played twice. The Cherries tweeted: “We are saddened to learn of the passing of Christian Atsu. The thoughts of everyone at the club are with his family and friends at this awful time.” Atsu joined Newcastle, initially on loan, in the summer of 2016 and spent five seasons at St James’ Park — making 121 appearances. “We are profoundly saddened to learn that Christian Atsu has tragically lost his life in Turkey’s devastating earthquakes. “A talented player and a special person, he will always be fondly remembered by our players, staff and supporters. Rest in peace, Christian.” Atsu represented Ghana at five major tournaments — including the 2014 World Cup. The national team tweeted: “You served our country well, forever in our hearts. Rest in Peace.” The English Premier League added: “We are deeply saddened by the news Christian Atsu lost his life in the devastation of the earthquakes that have hit Turkey and Syria. Our thoughts and condolences are with Christian’s family and friends and everyone affected by this tragic event.” The English Football Association also paid their respects. They tweeted: “Our thoughts are with the family and friends of Christian Atsu and with everyone impacted by the devastating earthquakes in Turkey and Syria.” — The Mirror