The Herald Yeukai Karengezeka-Arts Correspondent United Kingdom-based gospel songbird Yeukai Mhandire, better known as Yeukai Washe, whose career is on the rise, has vowed to remain on top of her game. Although Washe started singing two decades ago, she said her journey was not like a stroll in the park. She said owing to many challenges, she had to take a sabbatical only to return to the showbiz with a bang in 2021 with the album titled “Munamato”. The album won her the Most Impactful Gospel Music gong at the Zimbabwe Community News (ZCN) Awards, 2021 edition and she was nominated as the Gospel Artiste of the year at the ZimBrits Awards in UK in 2021. Since then, Washe has become unstoppable and is currently riding high with her latest album “Gogogoi” which was produced by Blessing Mchenga. She said the album features South African-based artiste Tendai Chazika and Timothy Ngwenya who is based in the United Kingdom. Just like wine, her music seems to be also maturing with time. Washe told Herald Arts and Entertainment that she was humbled by the way her music was gaining influence locally and in the diaspora. “I feel honoured and humbled by the way my music is being received locally and internationally. It is only passion, perseverance, hard work and determination that has caused me to be where I am today,” she said. The talented singer said she draws inspiration from life circumstances and prayer. “I usually compose songs while I am in prayer,” said Washe. “At times I am inspired by my personal life experiences and those things that occur within my environment. My goal is to uplift people’s souls through music, bringing them closer to God.” Washe enjoys many opportunities and is expected to share the stage with veteran South African gospel music singer Rebecca Malope in the UK in May this year. “I am so excited and thank God for the many avenues He is opening up for me. I will be a supporting artiste at the Legendary night of Malope’s show that will be held in Birmingham on May 6,” she said. Last month, Washe won the outstanding Diaspora Gospel Musician of the year at Zimbabwe Community National Awards. Recently, she shared the stage in Zimbabwe with gospel music legends like Sipho Makabane and Baba Manyeruke at the launch of EPG Choir. The “Ndazviona” hit-maker last year also released a powerful emotional song that features award-winning gospel diva Dorcas Moyo called “Usacheme Nherera”. It was followed up by another single titled “Mwanangu Waita Hako” (Thank You My Child”. Apart from ministering in music, Washe also assists the less privileged members of society, especially children in Zimbabwe through her foundation called Yeukai Foundation. Washe is also a family person who enjoys spending time with her children. She works as a public nurse specialist.