The Herald Collin Matiza Sports Editor ZIMBABWE’S motocross teenage sensation Emmanuel Bako is set to plunge into his first major international event overseas when he takes part in the 2023 Ashbrook Hawkstone International near Market Drayton, north Shropshire, England, this coming  Sunday. The Ashbrook Hawkstone International is one of the major motocross events on the British calendar. It usually brings together some of the world’s best dirt bikers and this Sunday’s race meeting has already attracted former World Motocross Champions Jeffrey Herlings of the Netherlands and Frenchman Romain Febvre. Adding to that, world class riders Glenn Coldenhoff, Harri Kullas, Henry Jacobi, Alvin Ostlund, Davy Pootjes, Brent Van Donick, Mikkel Haarup, Raf Meuwissen plus top Brits Shaun Simpson, Adam Sterry, Ashton Dickinson, Dylan Walsh and British rider Joel Rizzi will grace this one-day international event. And Zimbabwe’s 16-year-old rider Bako, a Form Four student at St John’s College in Harare, is set to rub shoulders with these world class bikers on Sunday when he competes in the Ashbrook Hawkstone International, having flown into London on Tuesday morning accompanied by his father and manager, Brighton “Bucks’’ Bako. Speaking from London yesterday, Brighton told The Herald that his son’s participation in this year’s Ashbrook Hawkstone International has been arranged by his (Emmanuel’s) South African trainer Joe Tavares. “We flew into London on Tuesday and we are preparing to race in the Ashbrook Hawkstone International which I’m told is one of the biggest international motocross events in the Europe, if not in the world, and Emmanuel will be racing in this event for the first time in his career. “His South African trainer, Joe Tavares, who is based in France, organised everything for him as part of his efforts to turn Emmanuel into a fully-fledged international motocross rider. This is just the beginning for Emmanuel in this tough and long journey of competing as an international rider overseas. “So, we are all happy for him and we are just hoping and praying that he will make his presence felt at this major international competition by claiming a step on the podium in the 125cc Class that he will be competing in. In fact, a top 10 finish will be a fantastic achievement for him. We are just hoping the cold weather won’t affect him on Sunday but he is ready for the challenge,” Brighton said. According to the organisers of the Ashbrook Hawkstone International, for this year’s event, they will mix 20 of the best MX1 Class riders with 20 of the best MX2 riders. Each Championship will be scored individually, and points and prizes awarded per class. The Super Final will also be mixed with the MX2 riders having a 3 — 4 second advantage like in previous years with the results decided as they cross the line. The support classes will be an adult mixed class and an EMX125 Class. The Ashbrook Hawkstone International will give the fans an opportunity to some of the World’s best riders in the UK in 2023. This is a prime opportunity to see new teams, new riders and some of the best racers in the World battle against each other at one of the most famous motocross circuits. Gary Ford — the event secretary — said: “Once again we are really looking forward to Sunday’s event, we are hoping to draw some world class riders to Hawkstone and have a good pre-season race meeting before the GPs kick off. “We are really pleased that Ashbrook have committed to the Hawkstone International as title sponsor and it will be great to work with them again.” The Ashbrook Hawkstone International is one of the UK’s biggest attended motocross events and is the opening and start of the 2023 UK motocross season. Sunday’s event will be staged at Hawkstone Park Motocross Circuit, typically referred to as Hawkstone Park or Hawkstone. It is a motocross circuit situated near Market Drayton, north Shropshire, England..