The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Davis Cup tennis team member Courtney Lock says fans should expect world-class tennis when they take on Uruguay in the World Group II play-offs tomorrow and on Saturday at Harare Sports Club. The two teams are meeting for the first time in this competition. Courtney and his elder brother Benjamin Lock had an impressive season last year in the ATP Challenger Tour and have been playing some tournaments leading up to this week’s Davis Cup tie. They are the most experienced players in the Zimbabwean team that includes Mehluli Sibanda and Benedict Badza. The whole team has been training together since Monday at the match venue. Courtney Lock is aware they are up against a good side, who are seeded first in this Group. But him and Benjamin have had an opportunity to meet some of the Uruguayan players during the tour. “So we are playing number one seeds, Uruguay, they are a good team. But my brother and I have had a really good season. Leading up to this we have been playing on the Challenger Tour. “So we know a lot of their players and we have played against them before. So we are really looking forward to it and we are just trying to adjust back to the altitude and get ready for the tie. “I think the people are going to see some world class tennis. I think their doubles player (Ariel Behar) . . . he has just come from Australian Open. So it’s tennis at the highest level and I think everyone is looking forward to it. I think it will be very good tennis. “And as I said we know the players, we know them on scouting and all that kind of stuff, so I think we are all looking forward to the tie,” said Courtney Lock. Uruguay’s Behar has a doubles ranking of 57. Zimbabwe earned promotion back into World Group II in August last year when they beat Namibia 2-1 in a promotional play-off at the Africa Group III event in Algiers, Algeria. They had been relegated to the less fashionable Group when they lost to El Salvador in the World Group II Play-offs earlier in the year. “I think we are very happy to be playing back in World Group II. We worked hard in Algeria to win the promotion. So we are all very excited to be back here playing, that was the goal. “We went to play in Algeria, playing away, playing four, five matches in a week, to (be) promoted was a lot. But our goal was to be here, to be in this position,” Courtney Lock said. Mehluli Sibanda is also excited to be back in action, having been forced onto the sidelines due to a shoulder injury. He is confident in his teammates and feels it he is good to play. “Ben and Courtney are coming from Europe and they have just been playing tournaments and I think it’s an advantage for us. “I have been training mostly at home. Last year I struggled with a shoulder injury and my hamstring. “But then from December I have been training (and) the whole of January until now. “And I plan to play some tournaments after this. The shoulder injury has been fine but my hamstring is the one that’s has been giving me some problems but it’s manageable and I am good right now,” Sibanda said. The draw will be conducted today at Cresta Lodge. It will be preceded by a meet-and-greet session for the two teams. Uruguay dropped to the World Group II Play-offs when they lost 3-2 to China in the World Group II first round tie in September last year. Their team for the weekend’s tie consists of their top doubles player Behar, Martin Cuevas, Ignacio Carou, Franco Roncadelli and Joaquin Aguilar Cardozo. Enrique Perez-Cassarino is the captain.