The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter THE BG Sniper football tournament series, which have unearthed several youngsters including Tadiwanashe Mhinyu and Allan Masaya who have joined Premiership football clubs, continue to grow with the introduction of netball and women’s football. The latest edition of the fiesta, which is bankrolled by businessman Parkston Choto, was held at St Paul’s Sango School in Wedza on Sunday with six teams in each category and age-group taking to the field. Hosts Sango, Matsvai, Wedza United, Gumbonzvanda, Harare Select and St Thomas Aquinas Chisasike battled it out in men’s football with Harare Select accounting for Sango in the final. Tafadzwa Kandiado, who has since attracted interest from Herentals and Cranborne Bullets, was on target as the capital city team beat the hosts 1-0 to take first place and a cool US$1 600 cash. On a day of dominance, Harare Select netball team also romped to victory in their section to walk away with as much cash as their football counterparts. Sango wouldn’t be outdone though as their female football team outwitted Matsvai in the final. Under-15 boys’ football is also another latest entry into a tournament that takes place every fortnight in Wedza with Sango emerging victorious over Harare Select in this category in the final. Choto said the fiesta will eventually incorporate all sport codes as he wants to help grow sport in the country. “I grew up in this area as you might already be aware. I failed to get an opportunity to play football at the highest level due to lack of exposure,” said Choto. “What I am trying to do is simply afford some youngsters down here a chance to get noticed and earn a living out of playing sport. We would also like to help those who are already out of school and a bit old to at least realise something from playing sport. “We would like to encourage everyone in the community to play sport and get paid from it. Sport is good for health and we would like to try and fight ills in the society such as drug abuse and adultery. “As BG Sniper Transport, we will continue to pour in more resources into sport. We will do this weekly or fortnightly.” Tournament organiser, Brighton Choto, a former councilor for the area, said the next edition, which is scheduled for next Sunday at Gumbonzvanda, will see the introduction of more sport codes. “The idea is to fight vice in society and we are saying everyone should participate. We are here to help the community since we know sport is a unifier and can help fight delinquency and the like,” he said. “Basically, we will continue in this trajectory as we want to see a transformed society.” Teenager Kudakwashe Chari of Chisasike, who was named the men’s player of the tournament, hailed the initiative. “Look, we always look forward to this tournament as it comes either weekly or fortnightly. What it means is that we are always occupied either training or in competition and there is no time for drug abuse,” said Chari. “We are excited as youngsters and I can tell you that I have already received a call from one of the three biggest teams in Zimbabwe who want to assess me after their scout saw me playing. “I am confident that I will do well and I would like to urge BG Sniper to continue making the difference in our marginalized society.”