The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter AFTER managing to finish at a respectable ninth position finish in their maiden ZIFA Eastern Region Division One Soccer League campaign, JM Busha FC are hopeful that they will do better in their second season after they have revamped the team for this year’s campaign. The Murewa-based side’s coach, Clifford Dzvairo, said they are looking forward to a good season after they began their pre-season preparations last week. The team was established in 2019 after JM Busha Investment Group bought PG Minerals FC, which was based in the Uzumba Maramba Pfungwe area, after it was promoted to Division One. “We are happy with the preparations we have had at the moment and we are looking forward to a good season. “The team began the pre-season last week at our Murewa Prisons base and we are happy with the progress so far. There is so much improvement as we have revamped the team that did duty for us last season. We had a total of 30 players but have since reduced it to 25 players whom we will work with this season. “As JM Busha we have learnt our lessons in our first season and we are now expecting to improve from our last year’s performances. We had a fantastic season so this year we are expecting to do better and maybe to win the championship,” said Dzvairo. The team, who were forced to relocate to Chikondoma Stadium in Mutoko after their Murewa stadia was condemned mid-way through the season last year, have since romped in several seasoned players who have experience in the Premier League and Division One. “When we started we focused mostly on Under-23s but we had some difficulties as experience came into play. “We have since made some adjustments to our technical team as we have brought on board goalkeeper player/coach Nyasha Zhuwawo and Kudzi Chitima, who is a technical analyst. Zhuwawo has come in to replace George Muketiwa who is now pursuing other avenues. “We have managed to bring on board some players like Kuda Simbanda, Solomon Moyo, who played for Green Fuel and Mutoko Traders, Rashid Kanyeze and Jonathan Musara from Zaka Academy,” said Dzvairo. The other players in JM Busha’s books this season include goalkeeper Hilton Nyamakope, Jonathan Musara, Kudakwashe Sibanda, Blessing Chinyerere, who was playing in the Motsepe Foundation League in South Africa, and Success “Sporo” Sawadye, who is returning from a loan spell with Mutare City. Club owner Joseph Makamba Busha has diversified his sporting interest into football after his investment into the ZIFA Eastern Region Division One. Before venturing into football JM Busha partnered National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe, sponsoring events such as JM Busha 54 road races in the 21km, 42km and 54km for several years.