The Herald Crime Reporter Seven people have been arrested in Lupane after they were found cultivating 246 mbanje plants as police intensified the crackdown against drugs and substances abuse. The seven are still assisting police with investigations, national police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said. Meanwhile, 266 arrests were made on Thursday under operation “No to illicit drugs and substances” bringing the cumulative arrests to 1 655. On Thursday, police raided suspected drug dealers in Mbare, Harare, as they intensify the crackdown against drug suppliers and peddlers. The Mbare raids included Nzimbe in Matapi, Mbare Musika and some houses that were being used to make illicit brews. This week, police warned cross-border bus and truck drivers, who are believed to be part of the drugs smuggling syndicate, to stop the practice or face dire consequences. “On February 9, police in Mbare, Harare arrested thirteen suspects for being found in possession of skin lightening creams and other banned substances without licences while others were smoking dagga,” said Asst Comm Nyathi.  “Police seized a load of the recovered drugs.” Police and other authorities have since increased surveillance and checks at all border posts as the operation against drug suppliers and peddlers intensifies. There have been reports that most of the drivers are paid to smuggle illicit substances into the country for delivery to dealers and peddlers. Other bus drivers on intercity routes are also part of the distribution network. Police are, however, on high alert and any driver found with drugs will be arrested and prosecuted and their buses or haulage trucks impounded. Recently, police said they were also now conducting door-to-door searches to flush out drug dealing. Suspected drug havens have been randomly raided by police carrying out stop and search operations. So far, police have recovered large quantities of mbanje, crystal methamphetamine commonly referred to as mutoriro and bottles of banned addictive cough syrups such as Broncleer, Benylin with codeine and Adco-Salterpyn syrup, among other illicit substances. Some home owners in Harare operating shebeens and believed to be suppliers and distributors of dangerous drugs were also raided. Dubbed “No to dangerous drugs and illicit substances: See something, say something”, the operation comes after the Government instructed police to redouble their efforts against drug lords. Rounding up drug kingpins will help save young people, many of whom are struggling with drug addiction.