The Herald Yeukai Karengezeka Arts Correspondent It’s that time of the year once again to celebrate the achievements of those artistes that did extremely well in the past year in their different fields within the arts sector. Yes, we are talking about the 21st edition of National Arts Merit Awards ceremony that will be held on February 25 at the Harare International Conference Centre (HICC). The awards recognise and rewards excellence in creativity and talent in the creative sector. The annual prestigious event, which attracts people from all walks of life, including different corporates, will be held under the theme “Unlocking Dreams”. Over the years, the NAMA organisers — the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe and the Jacaranda Culture and Media Corporation (JCMC) — have refined the awards ceremony to become of a distinct standard. When such big events are held, people mostly focus on the level of order ranging from stage set up, line up of performing artistes, quality of performance delivered by the artistes, the red carpet set and who will be hosting it and the nature of prizes to be won, among other things. NAMA organisers have gained trust of the people and arts lovers are anticipating to have a good time and experience the best at this year’s ceremony. For those who enjoy the limelight, they are busy preparing, looking for the best outfits to put on as they count down to the red carpet, whose hosts are yet to be known. However, this time around, the red carpet would be strictly by invite. For the past few weeks, event organisers have been unveiling some of the artistes who are set to entertain guests on the night and more are yet to be unveiled. It’s a mixed bag, meant to cater for different tastes and likes when it comes to music. Amongst the performers are Mai Titi, Poptain, Feli Nandi, Juntal, Hope Masike, Obert Dube, Leo Magozz, Ishan, Mwenje Mathole and Mimmie Tarukwana. Also to perform at the event are gospel musician Mathias Mhere, hip-hop stars Saintfloew and Holy 10, dancehall singer Freeman, Andrea the Vocalist, songstress Ammara Brown, urban groover ExQ and DJ Tamuka. Last year, the line-up had the likes of Mbeu, Ma9, Nyasha David Tonto Wavie, JNR Brown, Minister Mahendere, Janet Manyowa, Mambo Dhuterere, Crooger, Kae Chaps and Kikky Badass. The artistes delivered top notch performances that left the audience begging for more. Nyasha David made a grand stage entry on a motor bike, while Kae Chaps made a special entry on a horse back. Nutty O also gave a dazzling performance that left the crowd in awe. A song talking about the theme has since been released on all music platforms and it features Nyasha David, Ulethu and Mwenje Mathole. As preparations are getting advanced, organisers on Monday unveiled the artistes that have been nominated for the People’s Choice Award. The nominees are sungura aces Mark Ngwazi and Alick Macheso, gospel diva Dorcas Moyo, dancehall musician Freeman and comedian Theophilus Chigumira. In an interview, JCMC events manager Tinashe Kitchen urged people to vote for their favourite by Friday. “From the 20th to the 25th of February, members of the public are now invited to vote for the winner of the prestigious NAMA People’s Choice Award via the following Click N’ Pay chatbot platform: +263 719161399,” he said. “The winning finalist will be announced at the NAMA ceremony.” In terms of others preparations, Kitchen said they were now at an advanced stage. “We have a lot of surprises in store and we shall have a musical theatre which will be supported by state-of-the-art technology, including video capturing and transmission,” he said. “Rehearsals with all our amazing artistes are complete, with final run-throughs taking place on Thursday and Friday. We are also looking forward to hosting our nominees from all over Zimbabwe, who are expected in Harare on Friday for the nominees reception.” Kitchen said they will showcase the best that Zimbabwe has to offer as they seek to celebrate artistes from all genres and put them on the spotlight based on the diverse skills and abilities that they possess.