The Herald Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League side Bulawayo Chiefs have been lambasted by a section of their followers for lacking development focus after unveiling former Zimbabwe international Danny “Deco” Phiri and defender William Stima who are in the twilight of their football careers. The side is desperate to beef up their squad after losing a number of key players in the last month mainly due to the financial challenges besting the club. But many of their supporters reacted with a sense of surprise after the club unveiled the forgotten former Warriors midfielder Phiri on their media platforms. Phiri, who has also been struggling with injuries in the last few years, is set to turn 34 years old in April. Stima, who won four league titles with FC Platinum before he was offloaded earlier this year, is also set to celebrate his 34th birthday next month. “Is it very difficult to look for young players? Yes, he (Phiri) was a great player but I think it’s not good for the development of our football,” said Batsirai Mutasa on the Twitter microblogging site. “You are now behaving like CAPS United. You are desperate now. Chiefs are now becoming an old people’s home,” added Munashe Mawiri. Another Twitter user by the name Farie B further joked, “At this rate it won’t be surprising that you sign Peter Ndlovu.” Some of the fans were concerned that Bulawayo Chiefs have a development team coached by Zimbabwe legend Agent Sawu that won the 2022 ZIFA Bulawayo Division Three title, and were subsequently promoted to Division Two ahead of the coming season, but surprisingly, they have not announced the promotion of any player from their structures. “But you have very good young players who made a name in the last Division 3 campaign, why not promote and expose those young lads?” queried Innocent Sibanda. The Tweet got a response from the Chiefs media. “We have those in the bag Mr Sibanda. The senior players will guide and help in the growth of the Young Ninjas,” retorted Chiefs. Phiri began his journey in the topflight with Bantu Rovers in 2009. He won the championship with Chicken Inn in 2015 and was eventually voted Soccer Star of the Year. At his peak he also represented Zimbabwe in both the CHAN and AFCON competitions. Phiri also had a lengthy stint in South Africa where he played for Golden Arrows between 2016 and 2021. His last days at Arrows, however, were punctuated by a nagging knee injury that kept him on the sidelines until the South African club parted ways with him. The defensive midfielder then switched to Tanzanian club Diamond Trust Bank (DTB) but left the club after a brief stint. New defender, Stima, was released by FC Platinum after struggling to get game time in the previous campaign, mainly due to injuries. He has worked with new coach Lizwe Sweswe at the now defunct Tsholotsho and most recently at the reigning champions FC Platinum. The pair of Phiri and Stima is likely to have their swansong at Chiefs, who won the Chibuku Super Cup last season. Amakhosi Amahle have also unveiled new striker Stanson Kanye (27) from Division One side, Quality Foods. The clubs retained players such as Panashe Ryan Shoko, Thomas Mudzengerere, Ben Nyahunzwi, Felix Moyo, Malvern Hativagone, Mandlenkosi Gasela, Mthokozisi Msebe, Billy Veremu, Malvin Mkolo and Obriel Chirinda. Some of the players that have left Bulawayo Chiefs include the trio of Moyo twins Elvis and Kevin as well as attacking midfielder Arthur Musiyiwa who signed for Dynamos, goalkeeper David Bizabani now with Green Fuel, midfielder Kelvin Madzongwe now at CAPS United and forward Perfect Chikwende who returned to FC Platinum.