The Herald Tina Musonza and  Rejoice Makoni Zimbabwean authors should write books which disseminate information on how the country can achieve its development goals while prescribing homegrown solutions to challenges being faced. Information Communication Technology, Postal and Courier Services Dr Jenfan Muswere Minister Dr Jenfan Muswere said this at the launch in Harare yesterday of a book titled “Oil”, authored by Dr Tinashe Muzamhindo. Minister Muswere said books should inherently address burning issues of the day and proffer advice to leaders who were supposed to be receptive to constructive criticism. “We are gathered here to witness this exclusive event of the book launch by one of our sons of the soil, Dr Muzamhindo,” he said. “A book on leadership experiences. The concept of leadership is a fundamental aspect of growth and constructive criticism. It is our belief and norm within the Second Republic that we accept constructive criticism. “What makes institutions collapse is the absence of intentional organisational and leadership capacity building. What I found consistently in the book is his unwavering honesty in grappling with what Achebe calls “the burning issues of the day. The book’s contribution to organisation and people’s lives extends beyond intellectual collegiality.” The new book that tackles different aspects of national development secured a bid of US$1 500 from local businessman Mr Scott Sakupwanya, after stakeholders assessed how the book was effective in transforming businesses into competitive corporates. A number of stakeholders, including Nakiso Borehole Drilling Company, Nyaradzo Funeral Services, the World Bank, Monson Funeral Services, ZB Bank, National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) and others were represented at the event. According to Dr Muzamhindo, who is also a research and development analyst “Oil” reflects how institutions, corporates, small and medium enterprises and leadership contribute to national development. “Oil lubricates and enables moving parts to function as intended,” Dr Muzamhindo. “This book is mainly for lubricating the different parts and aspects of leadership to strengthen the capacity of organisations, institutions and leaders based on personal experiences, institutional ideas and case studies within and outside Africa. “These are brief discussions of what leaders go through, institutional experiences and what organisations can do, and the peripheral experimental outages of leadership. “Attention is also paid to organisational goals; goal setting; what splits organisations and their challenges and their focus on leadership development.” Dr Muzamhindo said sharing leadership experiences was a fundamental aspect of growth and constructive criticism. What made institutions collapse was the absence of intentional organisational and leadership capacity building. “The memory, interaction, sharpening and esteem built around past experiences and mistakes converge to develop functional, progressive and ultimately excellent organisations and institutions built around great leadership,” said Dr Muzamhindo, adding that the 25-chapter book would soon be available in book shops. Dr Muzamhindo said plans were also underway for people to access the book on Amazon. ZB Bank chief financial officer Mrs Emmah Mungoni said the book had vast potential to transform businesses as it had information that was clear and easy to understand.