The Herald LONDON. —  Arsenal remain two points clear at the top of the English Premier League football tables thanks to a 1-0 win at Leicester on Saturday, as Manchester City maintained their pursuit of the Gunners by thrashing Bournemouth 4-1. Gabriel Martinelli was the match-winner for Arsenal at the King Power stadium in a game dominated by the visitors. “For the amount of time we dominated ball possession, territory and the amount of situations we had in the final third, we should have created much more and scored more goals,” said Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta. “When you don’t, you have to be exceptional in your defensive work and we conceded one shot. Defensively we were outstanding.” Arteta’s decision to start both Martinelli and Leandro Trossard in the front three at the expense of Eddie Nketiah paid dividends. Trossard had a brilliant first half strike into the top corner controversially ruled out by a VAR review for a foul by Ben White on Leicester goalkeeper Danny Ward. But Martinelli was not to be denied one minute into the second period when he coolly slotted home from Trossard’s pass. Bukayo Saka had a second goal ruled out for offside as Arsenal failed to turn their domination into a more convincing scoreline. City had also been guilty of a lack of ruthlessness in front of goal in 1-1 draws away to Nottingham Forest and RB Leipzig in the past week. But the defending champions put Bournemouth to the sword to cut the gap at the top back to two points. Julian Alvarez, Erling Haaland and Phil Foden were all on target for Pep Guardiola’s men before half-time. Alvarez’s shot was then turned into his own net by Chris Mepham at the start of the second half. But City have now gone six games without a clean sheet as Jefferson Lerma netted a consolation for the Cherries, who drop into the relegation zone. Leeds had not won a league game since before the World Cup break, a run which saw Jesse Marsch sacked. But they snapped that streak in a clash between the bottom two before kick-off at Elland Road. Junior Firpo scored the only goal 13 minutes from time to lift Leeds out of the bottom three. “The club needed it after 10 games without a win,” said Gracia after his first match in charge. “I’m very happy for everyone who works for the club, the fans and especially the players because they were working without rewards.” West Ham were the other big winners of the day in the battle to beat the drop as four goals in the final 20 minutes potentially saved David Moyes’ job in a 4-0 win over Nottingham Forest. — AFP.