The Herald Correspondent Russia’s President Vladimir Putin says his country will continue its yearlong “special military operation” in Ukraine, and he accused the United States-led NATO alliance of fanning the flames of the conflict in the mistaken belief that it could defeat Moscow in a global confrontation. Flanked by four Russian flags on either side on Tuesday this week, Putin told Russia’s political and military officials that the country would “carefully and consistently resolve the tasks facing us” in Ukraine. In addition to the pledge to press on with the fight and warnings to the West of a global confrontation, Putin said the conflict had been forced on Russia and that he understood the pain of the families of those who had fallen in battle. “The people of Ukraine have become the hostage of the Kyiv regime and its Western overlords, who have effectively occupied this country in the political, military and economic sense. “They intend to transform a local conflict into a phase of global confrontation. This is exactly how we understand it all, and we will react accordingly, because in this case we are talking about the existence of our country.” Defeating Russia was impossible, he said, and it would never yield to Western attempts to divide its society. A majority of Russians support the country’s actions in Ukraine, he said He asked his audience, including lawmakers, soldiers, spy chiefs and state company bosses, to stand in tribute to those who had lost their lives in the conflict. He promised a special fund for the families of the victims. With tens of thousands of people killed, Putin said, Russia is locked in an existential battle with an arrogant West, which he says wants to carve up Russia and steal its vast natural resources. Putin, 70, who was handed the presidency on the last day of 1999 by Boris Yeltsin, said the West had failed to destroy the Russian economy with the severest sanctions in modern history. “They want to make the people suffer . . .  but their calculation did not materialise. The Russian economy and the management turned out to be much stronger than they thought.” He called on major Asian businesses to invest in Russia’s economy. The $2,1 trillion economy is forecast by the International Monetary Fund to grow 0,3 percent this year, a much better result than was forecast when the conflict began. In Poland, US President Joe Biden, fresh from a visit to Kyiv, was expected on Tuesday this week local time to reaffirm to allies that his country is squarely behind Ukraine and committed to bolstering NATO’s eastern flank. Earlier that day, he met Poland’s President Andrzej Duda. Biden arrived in Warsaw late on Monday after a dramatic visit to Kyiv, where he met Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky, who is seeking more weaponry.