The Herald Latwell Nyangu
Youth Interactive Writer Many of us are lugging around heavy burdens but the encumbrances of a student are too heavy sometimes. And with such loads we may find ourselves looking for alternatives which some of which are not good for us. Despite college life being an expensive endeavour, finding an alternative can help you pay off recurring expenses. And good things happen to those who hustle. While, the bible says “come to me, all of you who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest” in Matthew 11:28. My question is, where do students find solace when they have such burdens. Yes, college is arguably some of the best years of our lives but being broke with the cost of living changing everything, it matters most to have a side hustle. At some point I wrote a piece about the story of broke students and it’s always painful that some of the students are finding it hard to sustain a life at college. But despite all those challenges, college undoubtedly is one of the most exciting times in a person’s life. You make new friends, pursue your goals and learn something new every day. However, it’s also a time when one way or another you flirt with going broke. Everyone knows the college student stereotype – no money, always hungry, living on noodles and toast. Just because you are in college doesn’t mean you have to be broke, a side hustle plays a key role. A side hustle helps you also to lessen the burden. No arguments, college life experience is truly one of a kind and the most common memories students have of college life are definitely goofing around with friends. They remember how the group of friends walked around the college in style and played silly pranks on each other. There are many upsides to having a side hustle as a college student. With a side gig, you will be able to have a mostly self-determined schedule, making it easier to earn money around your busy schedule. Not only that, with a side hustle you could reduce the amount of extra student debts, burdens you would need to cover your daily spending. College life is known as one of the most memorable years of one’s life. It is entirely different from school life. It exposes us to new experiences and things that we were not familiar with earlier. For some students, college life means enjoying life to the fullest and partying hard. And side hustle makes college life better since it will help to cover some gaps and reduce the burdens but one of the most worrying is what kind of side hustle are we doing fellow students. An alarm has been raised on some of us who have turned into drug dealings as a way of making money but my advice, in drugs there is no good hustle. While some of our fellow female students have turned into prostitution as part of their side hustles. Some have also turned into criminal activities such as stealing, fraud among others. While some are selling products. And without pointing fingers at anyone, these things are happening. This other day I was having a conversation with my fellas and we started talking about ladies who operate in the Avenues area. Surprisingly, one of us confessed that he once saw his girlfriend in the Avenues area during the night. She was doing a side hustle, I presumed. So some of this side hustle is not good for us as students. Last year, a student was arrested after he duped fellow students of their laptops. As a way to boost his pocket, I have another fellow who used to do gardening at a certain house each time he had no lectures. Many times I have seen some students selling different items as a way to boost their pockets. Nonetheless, college life remains a memorable time for all of us. Not everyone is lucky enough to experience college life. People do not get the chance to go to college due to various reasons. Sometimes they do not have a strong financial background to do so while other times they have other responsibilities to fulfil. The ones who have had a college life always wish to turn back time to live it all once again. And this is evidence that the burdens at times are heavy. You may be spending most of your time studying but as a college student, you can never have enough pocket money! After all, there is an endless amount of food to buy on campus, trips to go on, and dates to pay for. As the norm, college life poses a lot of challenges in front of you. You are now in a place full of unfamiliar faces where you need to mingle in. It teaches us to socialise and form opinions of our own. In college, students learn their free will and they go on to become more confident and composed. Having enough money at the end of the month is a big issue for college students. If you are like many college students, you may find yourself having “more month left over than money” more often than not, making it challenging to cover expenses. As students, you have nothing to lose by earning additional income on the side. But you should factor in the possibility that your studies might be affected by various factors. The problem is that earning on the side will eventually interfere with your academic obligations, and you may end up sacrificing your rest. The key is to apply a good balance between shuffling the demands for academics and your part-time jobs. Most importantly, let the hustle be clean. Many college students are considering finding part-time jobs, which has been a common practice. When unexpected circumstances requiring additional expenditures arise, having extra funding sources can help you with your financial struggles. You can earn money doing something you are passionate about or good at through hustles. And college students have been grabbing hustle ideas here and there. By working a side hustle to stack your income, you can pay down debt, boost your emergency fund, invest for your future, and have more fun money during your downtime. Depending on your field of study, there are side hustles that allow you to hit two birds with a single stone! You can experience the real-life work culture and environment while earning extra income. If you think about doing a side hustle, it’s always best to consider the best and safe side hustle. Above all, often, a job might not be worth it if it’s already disrupting your study schedule and is costing you a reputation.