The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE international Khama Billiat is set to see out his contract at South African football giants Kaizer Chiefs from the sidelines after a surgery ruled him out for the rest of the season. Billiat has been struggling with injury of late and Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane revealed at the weekend that the 32-year-old attacking midfielder underwent surgery for a groin rupture. Zwane was speaking ahead of their goalless draw against TS Galaxy on Sunday. The announcement added to the misfortunes the player has faced this year due to injuries and loss of form. Billiat last played a league match for Chiefs in October last year when they edged Orlando Pirates 1-0 in the sold out Soweto Derby. But he has since missed six games because of injuries in the last four months. Chiefs had hoped that he would return before the end of this month after recovering from his injury through rest and physical therapy. However, Billiat is one of two Kaizer Chiefs forwards that were sent for surgery, as Zwane also revealed that Nkosingiphile Ngcobo had been operated on. “Khama Billiat, who underwent surgery to repair a torn groin muscle, is currently on our injury list. He’ll be out for the remainder of the season,” said Zwane. The club’s physiotherapist, David Milner, also gave details on Chiefs’ dressing room which is currently hit hard by knocks that are threatening their quest for a top four finish. They have since fallen out of the championship puzzle after drifting 27 points away from log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns. “Currently, our injury list consists of Khama Billiat, who had surgery to repair a torn groin muscle. He’ll be out for the rest of the season. “Nkosingiphile Ngcobo tore a thigh muscle and needed quite extensive surgery on it. He’ll be out for about three to four months. “Reeve Frosler had a fracture to his jaw which then had to get wired together. He’ll be out for between six and eight weeks. Dillan Solomons dislocated his left shoulder. It looks like he’ll be able to be treated conservatively and we expect him to be back in four to six weeks,” said Milner. The injury has likely ended Billiat’s hopes of reaching a new personal milestone in South African football. The Zimbabwean, who is currently the all-time top scorer among active DStv Premiership players with 94 goals, may not be able to reach the 100 goals milestone this season. His struggles at Chiefs, where he is in his fifth season, have been well-documented, as the Zimbabwean forward has not lived up to the expectations set by his performances at former club Mamelodi Sundowns. Despite providing three assists this season, Billiat has yet to score in 11 appearances this campaign and his contract with the club expires at the end of the season. Billiat has featured in 125 matches for Chiefs and scored 24 goals. He also has 29 assists to his name across five seasons. In comparison he netted 47 goals at his previous club, Sundowns, and recorded 43 assists in 140 appearances spread over five years. He also enjoyed good returns at Ajax Cape Town, where he began his Supa Disk experience during the 2010-2011 season and contributed 23 goals and 24 assists in 92 games. Billiat, who turns 33 in August, has since retired from international duty with Zimbabwe. However, he is still one of the finest players in the Supa Disk, which explains why he is among the highest players in the league. The Mufakose-born star reportedly takes home a monthly salary of R830 000. With his contract coming to an end this June, reports from South Africa have said Chiefs are considering conditions in deciding his future. The club can extend the contract for another year. According to Soccer Laduma, several factors will go into making the final decision on the future of the player with the club. The factors that will be considered include salary, his advanced age and recent injury struggles, which have kept him out for a significant period. The publication also noted that Amakhosi are also concerned about Khama’s form in the current campaign after registering only four assists this season. “The Siya crew understands that Billiat is on a big salary package at Naturena, making him one of the highest paid players at the club. But with age and injuries often hampering his progress, as well as the big salary, Amakhosi are expected to consider these factors as they decide on what happens next in the player’s career,” reported the publication.