The Herald Tina Musonza-Herald Correspondent A University of Zimbabwe law student has penned an educational book in an effort to help Advanced Level Literature in English learners critically analyse set books. The book is titled; “Literature in English Critical Appreciation and Analysis Handbook.” Lawrence Muramba (21) penned the book with a motive to assist students on analysing the work of art from local based writers such as George Mujajati, Shimmer Chinodya, Phillip Chidavaenzi and others. Muramba said the book had 12 chapters with a potential of increasing knowledge on how to tackle Literature in English questions with regards to the set book one was studying. He said as the title depicted, “Literature in English Critical Appreciation and Analysis”, the book was a study guide derived from his assessments of the work of art done by local and external book writers. “I chose the title so that it is clear that the book is more about appreciation and analysis, not just mere analysis, but critical one,” said Muramba. “The book has vital information about literature genres that are studied in the Zimsec and Cambridge syllabus, which are poetry, prose and drama.” Muramba said the book was a guide perfectly made for learners, teachers and every other person who sought to improve their literature skills, as it taught from the starting point. “It also has answering techniques, examples and typical examination questions and it is syllabus and curriculum oriented,” said Muramba. He said in the book, he tried to assess and explain set books such as “Ties that bind”, “Rain of my blood”, “Songs of innocence and experience” and “Hamlet and Flowers of yesterday”. “I was doing a few set books as an example to show how students can tackle questions from them,” said Muramba. “In terms of the books that are being done currently, those are the five. “Considering all the set books that have been done, there are a lot of them including ‘The Sun Will Rise Again’. I also did ‘Harvest of Thorns’, ‘Julius Caesar’, ‘Romeo and Juliet’ for Cambridge”. Muramba said the book had already been published and could be accessed in various shops by the end of this month. “I am hoping that by the end of month I will have placed it in various bookshops so that people can access it more efficiently,” he said. Muramba has written other books like “Thorns and bristles”, “Echoes of the heart” and “Storms of the mind”.