The Herald Tadious Manyepo
Sports Reporter
UK-BASED Zimbabwean football entrepreneur Jomo Dyson Dzapasi Njuma Nyandoro says football is an ultimate unifier as he celebrates a decade of excellence with his PYE Sports Management UK & Football Scouting. He founded the consultancy in Leeds, England, back in 2013 with the scouting efforts unlocking significant spaces in terms of grassroots development. For five seasons, Dzapasi worked at Leeds United Academy where he became one of their best scouts and he was promoted to set up and run development centres in partnership with the club under PYE in Leeds and Bradford cities. He did not disappoint as many youngsters were signed by Leeds United including the likes of Luke Hurrop, Ethan Kachosa, Jimmiel Chikukwa, Musab Aliyu and Isaac Bridge, among others. His works did not go unnoticed with other top professional clubs in the UK showing interest in his works including such clubs like Sheffield United, Sheffield Wednesday,  Manchester United, Rotherham, Barnsley, Oldham Athletics, Doncaster Rovers, Bradford City and Blackburn Rovers. Dzapasi’s PYE has built a remarkable reputation offering coaching courses for top UK academies coaches including one on one coaching to players preparing them psychologically, physically, and technically for trials. Dzapasi said his project is particular when it comes to selecting quality players. “PYE project selects top talented players across England and visit top UK clubs in the Premiership, Championship, League 1 and League 2. “We have built a reputation in bringing quality players and no bias in selecting talent across race, cultural,  religious and social backgrounds. “Above all, PYE uses football to unite communities and give deserving young players opportunities,” “he said. “I have been to France and  Holland to open links for PYE project and I have been invited for Academy matches to assist young players showcase their talent. “This year PYE is expecting to send teams to play in places like Netherlands, France, Belgium and Germany among others  to get more opportunities for young talented players. “I am a patriotic Zimbabwean, who loves his country and I am willing to support Government Ministries, Sports and Recreation departments and ZIFA in restoring order to Zimbabwe football. I am working with football partners on Zimbabwe soil and soon PYE project will be running in Zimbabwe led by respected former top Zimbabwean footballers to get young talented players. I am not saying let us not be just arm chair critics, let’s help our football in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe is built by us Zimbabweans. I love the mantra Nyika inovakwa nevene vayo. “I am inviting all top Zimbabwean football managers and player developers like Phillip Zulu my mentor and the man that taught me a lot about professional football and groomed me at Super Eagles Academy in Leeds, Eddie Mukahanana in Canada who is also doing amazing works with youth players, Shingi Jose, a football coach and player developer in United Kingdom and Marshall Gore Team Zimbabwe UK who facilitates young players based in the UK to play for Zimbabwe.” Dzapasi said he is ready to help Zimbabwean football in all ways possible. He comes from a football family as his elder brother Brighton Dzapasi used to turn out for former top-flight sides Black Aces and Chapungu United in the 1980s.