The Herald Ivan Zhakata-Herald Correspondent For those who love sungura music, today all roads lead to Warren Park Council Bar popularly known as “Pabhawa” where Alick Macheso is set to enthral his fans. The event is being hosted by music promoter Danny Chiku in a bid to bring more entertainment to the high density suburb and promote local music industry. The seasoned sungura ace will be joined by upcoming musician Kurai Makore, who is set to curtain raise with his scintillating beats. Chiku yesterday said Warren Park had been left out for many years by promoters, so he decided to ignite the suburb by incorporating Macheso and Makore, an upcoming sungura singer. “As you know Macheso, when it comes to performing, he never disappoints,” he said. “We are happy to be bringing him to perform in Warren Park at the council bar. “Macheso is a game changer in the music industry. I would like to urge the Warren Park community and those in the surrounding areas to come in numbers and celebrate with us. “He will be supported by Kurai Makore who is also proving to be the best upcoming sungura musician.” Sungura lovers in Warren Park said they could not wait for Baba Sharo, as Macheso is affectionately known in the musical circles, to give them a dose of his popular sounds. Fraser Magombo, who claimed to be a “number one” fan of Macheso, said he could not wait to attend the show. “I am happy that Macheso has been brought home and I cannot wait for the show,” he said. “It feels good that it his happening in my backyard. I hope he will do justice like always, in Baba Sharo we believe.” Mr Prosper Magoga said Warren Park had been remembered by the ‘best’. “We are glad that Macheso has remembered us with this early show this year,” he said. “He is among the most sought after artists in the country, so having him perform here is a great honour. “It is so delighting that Warren Park is being remembered and we promise to be there, merry making. I cannot wait to attend his show.” The much-hyped show will start at 7pm till late.