The Herald Blessings Chidakwa-Arts Reporter This year marks exactly 10 years since the birth of Duramazwi Mbira Ensemble, a group that has stood the test of time singing not only to impress, but to simply express, playing the traditional instrument – the mbira. Two of the 12-member group might have fallen by the wayside during its musical journey, but the energy and purpose is still the same, having conquered locally and abroad. Within its decade of existence, Duramazwi knows no bounds having entertained at some of top State events such as the banquet held last week for visiting Belarusian President Aleksandr Lukashenko. The group already has some footprints in Dubai, Egypt, South Africa and Namibia where it performed exceptionally, lifting the country’s flag high. Songs that usually come to mind when the name of the group is mentioned are “Taisa Maoko”, “Chembere Dzemumvura” and “Pasi Rapinduka.” These are songs which one rarely plays to dance to, but often to meditate as they have a deep cultural connotation in them. Duramazwi Mbira Ensemble leader Sarudzai Jaravaza yesterday said as the group celebrated the decade in the music industry, it was still aiming higher. “We formed the group in 2013 as 12 members, but along the way two left for greener pastures,” she said whhile speaking comfortably at her base in Mbare. “Our first album was ‘Mavambo’ that had seven tracks including “Chembere Dzemumvura” and “Chinyakare Wakaendepi”. It was well received. Since then, our journey has been progressing well.” Jaravaza said the group had been receiving a lot of recognition across the globe due to its hard work. “Mbira is being well received since each time we are playing the instruments they carry with it some cultural connotations,” she said. “Like the name of the group depict ‘Duramazwi’ we will be explaining in detail some of the cultural and traditional issues.” Jaravazi said the group’s musical journey was progressing well. “Last year we represented our country during the annual Aswan International Arts and Culture Festival in Aswan, Egypt, where we performed outstandingly and won the first prize,” she said. “On our way back, our Minister Kirsty Coventry appreciated our efforts and gave us a present. We also performed in other countries such as Namibia and South Africa, holding shows.” Jaravaza said more people from the diaspora were booking them for shows. “There is a Polish national who was enthralled by our performance in Egypt and wants to book us there,” she said. “There is also another fan in Chicago, America, who was fascinated. “In America, they want us to teach students in their universities the meaning of each mbira instrument. It is pleasing to know that our works are being recognised worldwide.” Jaravaza said in April, the group will be in South Africa for a festival. “I applaud the country’s leadership that is offering us a platform to continue upholding our culture and norms,” she said. Jaravaza said the group was working on an upcoming project named “Vane Mazita Ngavaremekedzwe”, which seeks to incorporate children of fallen musical legends. “In the project, our focus is that those with great names even if they die their offsprings can still sustain their legacies,” she said. “The project was on hold due to Covid-19, but it is resuming soon. We intend to host one of the biggest shows locally which will cascade down internationally.” Jaravaza criticised drug abuse that has been a menace in the country. “I wish to encourage people to continue upholding our values and ethos as a nation,” she said. “Respect among the elderly people should be upheld at all times. Also, people should shun drug abuse. In schools, teachers should look after learners well as they are also parents. Learners should be monitored closely.” Jaravaza said it was a great honour and dream come true for the group to perform at State events graced by the Head of State and Government, President Mnangagwa.