The Herald New York. – The supplying of tanks by the US and Germany to Ukraine in its conflict with Russia has raised the stakes in a war scenario that could become increasingly perilous for the world. Ted Galen Carpenter, in a post on antiwar.com, wrote: “A dramatic escalation of US and NATO involvement in the Ukraine war is taking place — and that move is yet another reckless provocation toward Russia. “The Biden administration and NATO are playing a very dangerous game by engaging in such an escalation of its assistance to one side in an increasingly emotional and destructive conflict,” wrote Carpenter, who is a senior fellow in defence and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute in Washington. “Washington’s approach is to use Ukraine as a pawn (a proxy) … without NATO ending up in a direct war with Russia. It is a replication of the strategy Washington used in Afghanistan, providing military aid to the rebel mujahidin to harass, bleed, and eventually force the Soviet Union to execute a humiliating withdrawal.” Carpenter wrote, however, that “using the same strategy in Ukraine is vastly more dangerous. By virtue of its greater size and more important location, Ukraine is a crucial strategic stake for Moscow in ways that Afghanistan never was. “Washington and its allies have sought to maintain such an impossibly precarious status, but they are now careening toward becoming full-fledged belligerents, regardless of attempts to preserve the legal fiction to the contrary,” Carpenter wrote. “One cannot overstate the danger of that strategy.” Former US president Donald Trump, in a post Thursday on his Truth Social site, wrote: “FIRST COME THE TANKS, THEN COME THE NUKES. Get this crazy war ended, NOW. So easy to do!” Americans also took to Twitter to express concern over a seeming escalation of the conflict in Ukraine. US Representative Eli Crane, a newly elected Republican from Arizona and a former US Navy SEAL, wrote on Twitter: “This is so foolish. We are over 31 Trillion in debt, escalating a war that could quickly turn nuclear, and depleting our own weapon stockpiles.” Clint Ehrlich, a foreign-policy analyst and lawyer, said: “The American people have no idea that the White House is gambling with their lives. Sending M1 tanks to Ukraine puts us on a path towards fighting a nuclear war with Russia.” Medea Benjamin, co-founder of US peace group CODEPINK, wrote : “If you think sending tanks is going to give Ukraine the ability to take back all of Donbas and Crimea, you are unrealistic. The escalation makes nuclear war – not victory – more likely. And that is a lose-lose for all of humanity.” – ChinaDaily.com