The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premiership football giants CAPS United say they have big plans with goalkeeper Tonderai Mateyaunga after it emerged newboys Simba Bhora were monitoring his movements. Mateyaunga, who is one of the most experienced goalkeepers in the country, currently has a running contract with the Green Machine and has been busy leading the pre-season preparations as the team captain. Insiders said the Shamva side, which recently captured one of Makepekepe’s most valued treasures, leftback Valentine Musarurwa as a free agent, was also interested in the 29-year-old former Dynamos goalkeeper. However, CAPS United chief executive, Charlie Jones, yesterday told The Herald that they have no plans to release the player. Jones believes that the Green Machine have strengthened their goalkeeping department, with Mateyaunga joining forces with Tatenda Munditi and travelled ex-DeMbare teammate Ashley Reyners, who was signed by Makepekepe last week, after his latest stint with Manica Diamonds. “We haven’t been approached by any club concerning his services. Of course, Tonde (Mateyaunga) is a very good goalkeeper (I am actually with him right now) and he hasn’t spoken about it. “If any club is interested, maybe they will come to us, as a formality because the truth is he is not going anywhere. He is in our plans. “We believe we have secured that area now, after signing a third goalkeeper Ashley Reyners. We are now looking to add one or two more players in the other departments,” said Jones. Makepekepe have been busy with the pre-season after adding players such as Godknows Murwira, Adrian Silla, Kelvin Madzongwe, Innocent Zambezi and Admiral Matope.  “Our preparations are going on very well. We are keeping our cards close to our chest so that we allow the technical team and the players to make progress on the ground without attracting too much attention unnecessarily. “We are doing things surely and slowly moving forward,” said Jones. But Mateyaunga’s situation is delicate as he is now going into the last six months of his contract and could be open to negotiate with a club of his choice about his future. The giants are yet to engage the player for an extension. However, insiders at Simba Bhora have revealed the club’s owner Simba Ndoro and new head coach Tonderai Ndiraya are big admirers of the 29-year-old goalkeeper and had placed him on their shopping list. Mateyaunga has worked with Ndiraya at Dynamos previously. The Shamva side is beefing up for their maiden dance with Premiership football after winning the ZIFA Northern Region Division One League last year and secure automatic promotion. Ndiraya will have players with PSL experience at his disposal. Simba Bhora have lured former CAPS United players before, including the trio of midfielder Ronald ‘’Rooney’’ Chitiyo, defender Webster Tafa and goalkeeper Simbarashe Chinani, when they were still in Division One last year. The most outstanding player in the Simba Bhora’s title campaign last season, striker Tinashe Balakasi, is also a former CAPS United player. Balakasi scored a record-breaking 29 goals in the second-tier league to help Simba achieve their ambition of bringing topflight football to Shamva for the first time. Simba Bhora spokesperson, Charles Nyatsine, yesterday said he was not in a position to speak on Mateyaunga. “I cannot comment on that aspect of players because I am not privy to that area. Probably the head coach himself is the best person to talk about issues to do with the players because he is always on the ground,” said Nyatsine. Simba Bhora have taken their pre-season preparations seriously. They roped in former Dynamos chairman Isaiah Mupfurutsa to get the experience they need in administration at the higher level. They also brought ex-DeMbare coach Ndiraya, former DeMbare captain Partson Jaure, ex-Warriors winger Talent Chawapihwa and Blessing Moyo, who previously won league titles with Dynamos and FC Platinum. The other notable signings are Keith Murera from Dynamos, Vassilli Kawe from ZPC Kariba and ex-Bulawayo Chiefs midfielder Hugh Chikosa. Simba Bhora retained only 15 players from the last year’s squad. The club was forced to release players en-masse since they had a huge playing complement of more than 40 players last season. They have also signed 18-year-old Inter-Harare Academy graduate Alexander Mandinyenya. The teenage striker made his Premiership debut last year at Harare City in a match against Triangle. They have also secured Nigerian Abubakar Temitope Onifade on loan from champions, FC Platinum. They are hoping to play their home games at Wadzanai Stadium, in the heart of Mashonaland Central. The ground is currently receiving a massive face-lift to meet the requirements for hosting top-flight football. “Our preparations for the season are going on very well,” said Nyatsine. “The renovations at the ground are taking good shape and right now the contractors are busy with laying concrete on the terraces. “There is remarkable progress and we hope to meet all the timelines ahead of the start of the season. Of course, the stadium inspectors will be called when everything is done and they will give their verdict. “Our wish is that we will be able to finish all the works before the start of the season so that we will be able to play our home games in our own ground and in front of our supporters. “So we are working towards that.”