The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE are set to retain the same squad that gallantly fought for a draw against the West Indies as the Chevrons search for their first win against the Caribbean side in the second Test set to begin this Sunday at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo. The home side, which is missing about five of their top players through injuries and franchise cricket commitments, are not expecting any additions as they head into this key match. In the absence of captain Sean Williams, Sikandar Raza, Blessing Muzarabani, Tendai Chatara and Ryan Burl, the Zimbabwe squad featured as many as seven uncapped players before the first Test. Five players were handed their debut caps in the drawn game, and they did not disappoint against a full strength Windies side. The opening partnership of Innocent Kaia and Tanunurwa Makoni gave so much promise while Tafadzwa Tsiga stayed on the final day to help Zimbabwe grind a draw. Brad Evans also picked two match wickets on debut while Gary Ballance, who previously played 23 Tests for England, announced himself in Zimbabwe colours with a record-breaking century. Zimbabwe skipper Craig Ervine was also thrilled by spin-bowling all-rounder Brandon Mavuta, who took a maiden fiver before his maiden Test half ton. The fighting spirit has given the Zimbabweans belief ahead of the second Test. “I thought there was a lot of fight in the boys over the whole five days. The first two days were of course tough, not picking up any wickets, but we fought back well and then that good partnership between Ballance and Mavuta. “The debutants, Kaia and Makoni, were excellent as well. Have told the guys to go out and express themselves and they have done that very well. The squad will be the same for the second Test,” said Ervine. Despite the rain interruptions, the first two days were highlighted by centuries from visiting batsmen Kraigg Brathwaite (182) and Tagenarine Chanderpaul (207*). The duo shared a record opening partnership of 336 runs before Chanderpaul went on to convert his maiden Test hundred into a double, in only his third Test outing. The West Indies eventually declared after posting 447/6 hoping to dominate Zimbabwe with the ball as they had done with the bat, and force the home team to bat twice, in the quest for a win. But the opening partnership of debutants Kaia (67) and Makoni (33) absorbed the early pressure before setting up a 63-run partnership. Zimbabwe soon found themselves in all sorts of problems after they had lost wickets in clusters and at some point, it looked like the Men in Maroon would make short work of the game by asking Zimbabwe to follow-on before bowling them out again as the Chevrons teetered on 192/7. But Zimbabwe fought back with a crucial 135-runs partnership for the eighth wicket between Ballance and Mavuta. For now, it seems Ballance is the vital cog that the Zimbabwe team needs in the absence of some of their top players. Zimbabwe even had the audacity to declare after reaching 379/9 on Day Four. The declaration was tactical in trying to push for a positive ending to this contest. But the West Indies were resolute and after ensuring the game does not slip away from them again, they declared on 203/5 on the final day. It meant Zimbabwe were chasing 272 to win on Day Five but after losing a couple of wickets it only became sensible to hold out for a draw. Wellington Masakadza and Tsiga kept their cool and ensured that the home team got the desired result, despite losing six wickets. “After losing a whole day, I think it was a commendable effort from us to get close to a victory, so well done to us,” said West Indies captain, Brathwaite. “But also, Zimbabwe batted very well, so well done to Craig (Ervine) and his team. We knew it wasn’t going to be easy, but it was commendable from the boys with Zimbabwe coming hard with the ball and the bat. “For sure, wickets with the new ball were crucial, but Zimbabwe batted well. I think overall, pleased with the team effort.” In total, 11 Test matches have been played between them, with the Windies winning seven while four have ended in draws. Zimbabwe Test Squad: Gary Ballance, Chamunorwa Chibhabha, Tanaka Chivanga, Craig Ervine (captain), Bradley Evans, Joylord Gumbie, Innocent Kaia, Tanunurwa Makoni, Wellington Masakadza, Kudzai Maunze, Brandon Mavuta, Richard Ngarava, Victor Nyauchi, Milton Shumba, Donald Tiripano, Tafadzwa Tsiga. West Indies Test Squad: Kraigg Brathwaite (C), Jermaine Blackwood, Nkrumah Bonner, Tagenarine Chanderpaul, Roston Chase, Joshua Da Silva, Shannon Gabriel, Kemar Roach, Jason Holder, Alzarri Joseph, Kyle Mayers, Raymon Reifer, Devon Thomas, Jomel Warrican, Gudakesh Motie