The Herald LONDON. — Arsenal have announced that Mohamed Elneny has signed a new contract with the English Premiership football club. However, the club’s supporters are more worried about getting deals for Bukayo Saka and William Saliba sorted. The Egyptian midfielder’s new deal at the Emirates Stadium will last until June 2024. He is sidelined with an injury, but was overjoyed with his contract. He said: “I’m so happy, I love this club and our supporters so much and I’ll give everything to help us be the best we can be, every day I’m here. “It makes me so proud to have represented this amazing club since 2016. The spirit and togetherness we have in our squad right now is so positive and I’m so happy I have extended my contract.” Elneny, signed by Arsene Wenger from Basel in a £5million deal in January 2016, is now the longest-serving player at the club and one of the most popular in the dressing-room. Elneny becomes the third first team player to sign a new contract this season, following Gabriel Martinelli and Gabriel Magalhaes. Fans are now desperate to see star players Saka and Saliba commit their futures to Arsenal. One tweeted: “Five crucial players and now three (3) is already done and dusted. Left with the final two (2) please. 1. Gabriel. M. 2. Gabriel Martinelli. 3. Mo Elneny. 4. Bukayo Saka. 5. William Saliba. 3 already done. Now, last 2 to go.” A second commented: “Soooo erm… Saka and Saliba contracts soon.” A third wrote: “Okay, now the another six years of Saliba and Saka.” A fourth said: “Forget this guy where the Saka and Saliba extensions.” A fifth added: “Mo next Saka and Saliba.” Both of their current deals expire at the end of next season and the club will be keen to keep hold of their stand out players from this season. Meanwhile, Arsenal have emerged as frontrunners to sign Declan Rice after talks with the player’s representatives, reports say. The England international has been linked with a move away from relegation battling West Ham. And according to Football Insider, his team have held talks with Arsenal over a move. The league leaders have long been in the market for a midfielder to partner Thomas Partey (29). And after missing out on Brighton’s Moises Caicedo (21) they settled for a £10million deal for Jorginho (31) from Chelsea.  But Rice (24) would act as a long-term solution, with the star ready to target Champions League football. Even Hammers legend Tony Cottee has been left in no doubt West Ham’s captain will eventually move on. Cottee told SunSport: “It is different with the likes of Declan or myself. “The reason I left the club, and I didn’t want to but I felt I had to because I wanted to go and win something. — The Sun.