The Herald MANAMA. — International Olympic Committee (IOC) member Kirsty Coventry of Zimbabwe has welcomed the move to facilitate the return of Russian and Belarusian athletes at sports events and their inclusion at the Paris 2024 Olympics. Following the war between Russia and Ukraine in February last year, the IOC recommended that athletes from both countries (Russia and Belarus) are excluded from international competitions. It has recently moved towards allowing them to compete as neutrals in qualifiers for Paris 2024, vowing to continue to “explore a pathway” for their return and welcoming an Olympic Council of Asia proposal for them to compete at its events. Some opposition remains particularly in Europe, and the plans have sparked a fierce backlash in Ukraine, including discussions of a possible Paris 2024 boycott. Zimbabwean official Coventry, a former IOC Athletes’ Commission chair and a seven-time Olympic swimming medallist, confirmed that she had been asked for her views and agreed with the initial measures taken. “I’ve obviously been consulted and I’ve been speaking to a lot of different athletes and members, and the way in which the President (Thomas Bach) has decided to have those consultations, I think it has to happen,” she told insidethegames here in Manama at the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Bahrain Olympic Committee, World Aquatics and GFH Financial Group. “At the end of the day, our Olympic Values are to be open and welcome everyone, so I agree that it’s a first step, and let’s see how that then plays out.” The IOC has insisted that sanctions including a ban on Russian and Belarusian national symbols are “non-negotiable”, and vowed to ensure a “strong team” from Ukraine is present at Paris 2024 and Milan Cortina 2026. The issue appears set to dominate the build-up to Paris 2024 and the final years of Bach’s tenure, with the German official due to reach the maximum 12 years as IOC President in 2025. Speculation has begun with regards to his successor if there is no extension to the term limit, with World Athletics President Sebastian Coe from Britain hinting last month that he may consider standing. Coventry has been viewed as a potential candidate for the role who would enjoy support among her fellow IOC members. However, she was tight-lipped when asked if she has Presidential ambitions. “We’ll just have to wait and see,” she insisted. Coventry was elected as a full IOC member in 2021 after her eight-year term as chair of the Athletes’ Commission came to an end, and chairs Coordination Commissions for the Brisbane 2032 Olympics and the Dakar 2026 Youth Olympics. Other potential IOC Presidential candidates could include Aruba’s Nicole Hoevertsz, Japan’s Morinari Watanabe and Juan Antonio Samaranch of Spain. Meanwhile, IOC Brisbane 2032 Coordination Commission chair Coventry has insisted there is “full support” from the Australian Government for the Olympic and Paralympic Games in nine years’ time. The Zimbabwean seven-time Olympic swimming medallist was appointed to head up the Coordination Commission in October 2021. It currently has 15 members, and Coventry is satisfied with the early progress being made to prepare for Brisbane 2032. “It’s been great,” she told insidethegames. “The Government, yes there was the change, but there has been full support for the Olympic Games and for Brisbane 2032. “Everyone’s still working towards that cohesively which is really nice, so no big hiccups or anything to report on that note.” Labor’s Anthony Albanese beat the incumbent conservative coalition led by Scott Morrison in the Australian Federal Government election last May. Albanese has refused to commit to sharing 50 per cent of the costs for Brisbane 2032, with talks ongoing with the Queensland Government to find a solution. Morrison had promised that the Federal Government would cover half of the cost of the Games prior to Brisbane becoming the third Australian city to be awarded the Olympics. The Queensland capital was the first city to be awarded the multi-sport event under the IOC’s new bidding process in 2021. Coordination Commission meetings have shifted to a hybrid approach from last year, with half now expected to take place remotely and the other half on-site in a bid to cut the IOC’s carbon footprint. — Insidethegames.com.