The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter OVER 500 participants are expected to take part in the inaugural biggest fat-loser and the best muscle gainer in a unique two-month contest scheduled to begin on February 6. The competition, which is being held to promote healthy living as well as fight drug abuse, is organised by fitness-promoting organisation, Musabvunda. The contest is open to both sportspersons and non-athletes. Musabvunda managing director, Kudzi Pasipanodya, said they decided to introduce this kind of competition out of the need to promote healthy living among citizens. He said there are lots of prizes to be won at the end of the event. Musabvunda ran a pilot two-week competition in January in partnership with Star FM and the success story culminated into the upcoming event. “We are having a contest for the biggest loser of fat and biggest gainer of muscle running between February 6 and March 31. “We did a two-week calorie burning challenge in January in partnership with Star FM. It was a very successful event which then prompted us to expand,” said Pasipanodya. “We have hired nutritionists, fitness gurus and psychologists, among others, to help oversee the daily routines for participants and the whole programme. “At the end of the two-month long event, which will obviously start with a weigh-in, we will then do another weigh-in to determine the weight differences and come up with the winners. It’s a full package, a hyper workout activity.” Pasipanodya said the winners, three males and as many females, will be honoured at a review party to be staged on April 8. “There will be further impromptu fitness competitions during the review party. “Those winners will be announced during the review party to be held at RBZ Sports Club on April 8. “The reason we are doing this is to promote healthy living. A healthy nation is a productive nation. “We are playing our role to try and promote development through fitness. “We also want to fight drug abuse and vice through engaging and committing. “A lot of corporates have seconded their employees for the competition and we are calling upon more companies to also join in. “We have a busy year ahead. “In May we will have a half-marathon in Harare then June-July, our members will go for the Comrades Marathon in South Africa where I am also going to participate,’’ Pasipanodya said.