The Herald Ellina Mhlanga–Senior Sports Reporter THE Premier Netball League kick-start their 2023 programme this Saturday with their pre-season tournament at the Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex. It’s promising to be an exciting event after the PNL secured several partners for the day and they include Population Services Zimbabwe, Nyaradzo Group and Eat n’ Lick. PNL secretary-general, Liberty Mhizha, said they are putting final touches to their preparations to ensure all is in place for Saturday. “We have a confirmed number of 14 teams that participate in the PNL that are attending (Saturday’s event). And hopefully we are also going to have about six to eight teams, four of which are coming from the promotional play-offs from Division One organised by ZINA, that are going to be part and parcel of the whole tournament. “Further to that, we are going to have entertainment from (musician) Andy Muridzo, who is coming to be part and parcel of the whole proceedings as we try to fight the use of drugs and stuff like that among youths. “We are also having partners from Population Services of Zimbabwe, Nyaradzo, Eat n’ Lick. They are all coming through.” The league’s chairperson, Sarudzai Chapo, said they are geared for the tournament. Chapo said apart from the league’s teams and those from the promotional play-offs, they are looking forward to also having community teams drawn from Chitungwiza as part of Saturday’s games. “We expect that our teams are developing and making progress since we started the league though there are some new teams still coming. “Competition is growing and we know the teams have a point to prove, so we expect a highly competitive tournament. “So on the 18th of February we will be having more than 20 teams… and also from the community, we will take some teams in Chitungwiza. Since it’s pre-season, it’s about interacting though league teams will be using it to finalise their preparations for the new season and getting ready for the league games,” said Chapo. The league games are scheduled to start on March 11. Platinum Queens are the defending champions for both the pre-season tournament and the league. It will be interesting to see how they will fare this time around with the likes of GreenFuel, ZDF Queens and Harare City also out to change their fortunes this year. Gate charges for Saturday’s tournament have been pegged at $2 for adults and $1 for kids. Meanwhile, PNL yesterday signed a Memorandum of Understanding with 3Ktv that will see the latter broadcasting the league’s games. The agreement between the two parties is going to be reviewed as they progress but to kick-start the partnership, 3Ktv are going to broadcast the 2023 season games starting this weekend with the pre-season tournament. Chapo said it’s a positive development for netball and they value the partnership as it will increase visibility of the game. “They will broadcast all our games this season, starting with the pre-season tournament, which is on the 18th of February at the Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex. “This is important for the girl child and netball getting visibility and recognition because it’s a sport that was looked down upon. “We highly value 3Ktv’s belief in the PNL brand and its potential to grow its viewership by attracting the huge netball family during this period when we celebrate the second successive Netball World Cup qualification. “PNL is a baby when we compare with other sports brands in Zimbabwe with the celebration of the third anniversary in this 2023 season. It was not an easy ride. “The journey had its own mountains to climb, rough roads to manoeuvre and rough seas to sail but here we are today celebrating this achievement,” said Chapo. PNL was launched in 2021 and this will be their third season running.