The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter TOP Zimbabwean female boxer Monalisa “Queen of the Jungle” Sibanda has decided to withdraw from a non-title bout she was supposed to engage in against South Africa’s Mampule Ngubani this month. This follows some disagreements emanating from the organisers who decided to change the fight from a World Alliance Boxing Association (WABA) light-middleweight belt to a non-title event. The WABA belt is vacant and Sibanda and Mampule had been confirmed back in October last year as the contestants for the world stripes. But, somehow the organisers bizarrely shifted the goalposts and informed Sibanda this week that the fight had been converted to a non-title bout. Sibanda, who is also preparing for a WIBA world title challenge against Germany’s Alicia Kummer in April, revealed yesterday that she has withdrawn from the fight against Ngubani. “Look, we have been preparing for a title fight all along, since October last year. This had been confirmed by the authorities and we were readying ourselves for the big bout,” said Sibanda. “Then we were shocked to hear that the bout was no longer a title-fight. It came as a surprise to me, especially given everything had been agreed four months ago. “I was hoping to fight for this world title before another one coming in April. It was indeed a great opportunity for me to win two world titles in a space of three months. Besides, I was also going to use the fight to prepare for the bout against Kummer. “But we were shocked to hear that everything had changed and even the purse money is not that attractive so I can reveal that we are not taking it. “I am already an intercontinental champion and I deserve better. I cannot take this. So as it stands, that fight is off.” Sibanda said she will be concentrating on the upcoming fight against Kummer. She was given the opportunity to challenge for the WIBA belt against the German holder following her successful defence of the WIBA intercontinental title against Small Aciro of Uganda in Victoria Falls last year. Sibanda had first captured the stripes after her impressive win over Joyce Awono of Kenya in 2019. “At the moment, I am focusing on the upcoming fight against Alicia Kummer in April. I am ready for her although I would have loved to first face the South African (Ngubani). “I am not going to slacken in my preparations. I will keep on going and see what happens,” said Sibanda.