The Herald Concerns about further interest-rate hikes, a fizzling stock rally and a US crypto crackdown all suggest Bitcoin and other tokens should be beating a hasty retreat. Instead, they’re extending their 2023 rebound. Bitcoin’s year-to-date gain has now reached 50 percent after a further jump in February, contrasting with a retreat in global equities this month courtesy of a macroeconomic environment replete with growth and inflation concerns. This divergence has dented a positive correlation between shares and crypto that sprouted in the pandemic. A 40-day correlation between Bitcoin and the S&P 500 has slid below 0,3 to the lowest since 2021 from a May record above 0.8. A reading of 1 implies assets are fluctuating in lockstep and minus 1 signifies the opposite. Other relationships have shifted too: A once deeply negative 40-day correlation between Bitcoin and a dollar gauge is rapidly disappearing, while January’s tight tie between Treasuries and the largest digital asset has dissipated. “Crypto has been decoupling from traditional assets in 2023” and “crypto-specific events increasingly drive the market,” digital-asset research company Kaiko wrote in a note. An array of assets including digital tokens surged in January, but the risk rally outside of crypto snapped this month as data including strong US jobs figures dashed hopes for an imminent peak in borrowing costs. Crypto is outpacing traditional assets as a result. The S&P 500 has returned a smidgen over 6 percent this year, the Nasdaq 100 almost 13 percent and gold about 1 percent. The MVIS CryptoCompare Digital Assets 100 Index of leading tokens is up 40 percent. Some commentators contend that endogenous drivers in the digital-asset industry are influencing speculative bets on tokens. Hong Kong, for instance, stirred optimism by pivoting in October to a pro-crypto stance and on Monday outlined a plan to allow retail investors to trade larger coins. Adam Farthing, an analyst at crypto market maker B2C2, said 59 percent of flows from the Asia-Pacific region were buyers, compared with 55 percent in Europe and the Middle East and slight selling pressure from the US, where regulators have turned up the heat on the sector in the wake the collapse of the FTX exchange. Another crypto theme is the next upgrade of the Ethereum blockchain — the biggest commercial highway in the virtual-asset industry. The so-called Shanghai upgrade will allow investors to withdraw Ether coins they had locked up to help operate the network in return for rewards, a process called staking. Smaller tokens from applications that try to make it easier to harness staking rewards have surged. Examples include Lido DAO and Rocket Pool’s RPL, which are up 200% and 150% respectively in 2023, according to data from CoinGecko. Innovation “will allow crypto to decouple from traditional markets,” said David Moreno Darocas, research lead at market intelligence firm CryptoCompare.– Bloomberg    