The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter CAPS United coach Lloyd Chitembwe believes the arrival of the midfield duo of Kelvin Madzongwe and Adrian Silla will bolster his squad and inspire the team in the new Castle Lager Premiership football season that is scheduled to start next month. A number of clubs have made several signings. And CAPS United, who have been relatively quiet in the transfer market, yesterday flexed their muscle when they completed the move of defensive midfielder Madzongwe on a two-year contract from Bulawayo Chiefs. The deal of former Highlanders player Silla is expected to be finalised today. Silla was scheduled to arrive in Harare last night. Highlanders have sold their 26-year-old midfielder who signed a three-year contract with the Bulawayo side last year in July. But Bosso were forced to release Silla who had some disciplinary issues. The 33 year-old former FC Platinum player Madzongwe got down to business yesterday immediately after he was unveiled by club director Farai Jere. The two players are the latest additions to the club that has already secured the services of Godknows Murwira from Dynamos, Innocent Zambezi from Harare City and Whawha’s Admiral Matope. The Green Machine have not been very active on the market opting to maintain the bulk of the squad that did duty for them last season. They have also parted ways with some of the players that include Kenneth Bulaji, Valentine Musarurwa, Marshal Machazane, Amon Kambanji, Crucial Mandaza and Beloved Musabaike. These players have been released through mutual termination. “The idea is to improve the team. When the team improves, the prospects become better and this is the idea. And Adrian should he complete the move, he is a very good player. We are really looking for good players. Players that will add something that we do not have. I am sure Adrian does have those qualities. “I am sure when you bring individual players into your team and they become a team then we have a big chance of winning things. This is the ultimate goal, winning things,” said Chitembwe. Makepekepe entered their third week of training with their gaffer chuffed with the unity of purpose and eagerness being displayed by his players. “So far so good. The enthusiasm of the players and their work ethic has been excellent. “And these are the things you expect during this phase of the season. It is still early days but we are not yet working on the tactics. We are working more on physical fitness and obviously incorporating the technical aspects of the game. “It is very encouraging, very exciting in the sense that the enthusiasm is there, the cooperation of players has been very good and all of a sudden, there is this calmness within the football club, and I think that is very critical. “In a very long time, I have never been at CAPS United having this kind of calmness, so I am sure it is a very good thing,” said Chitembwe. The CAPS United coach says they are still building on the physical aspect of the game and will only engage in training matches after two or more weeks. “For now it’s about trying to develop certain basic fundamentals of performance which are physical training, technical training and tactical training and then later on probably in the next two weeks from now we will look at having one or two training games but for now it’s strictly working on the team trying to improve certain basic fundamentals,” said Chitembwe. CAPS United are celebrating their Golden Jubilee this year and would want to cap the grand celebration by winning some silverware. However, that will not be easy as the new season promises to be very competitive. Several top-flight clubs have bolstered their squads with the newly-promoted teams also being involved in the thick of things.