The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter IN a positive development for local swimming, Zimbabwe are expected to host this year’s CANA Zone IV Swimming Championships in April. Initially, Malawi were awarded the right to host this event but they have indicated that they have had some unexpected challenges and can no longer host the competition. The regional event is due to run from April 26 to 29. Zimbabwe Swimming chairperson, Zanele Nkomazana, confirmed the latest development. “Obviously we have to consult the Ministry (of Sport) first and let them know. “What we need more is financial support to host the event but what is very important and what is good for Zimbabwe is that it comes with business, and our athletes will benefit because we are allowed to enter two teams. “So we will enter 80 swimmers maximum, 40 each. And to have that competition at home, Zimbabwe will have an opportunity to support their own at home. “So basically really it’s always the best to host, home advantage, more numbers will compete, the country will benefit business wise. So we are looking forward to it. “In terms of athlete readiness we are ready, 100 percent we can jump into the pool anytime. What we will need to do is to look for funding. “Our appeal really would be that we ask for the corporate world to support so that we host a successful gala,” said Nkomazana. Zone IV consists of Angola, Botswana, Comoros, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Eswatini, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Meanwhile, Harare retained the National Senior Swimming Championships title after they dominated the competition held in Bulawayo at the weekend. The championships got underway last Thursday and ended yesterday. Harare and Bulawayo had the most numbers in terms of swimmers, and Harare, who have more swimmers, were the overall winners with a combined team score of 2 833.50. Bulawayo were second after accumulating 2 204 points. Mashonaland Country Districts were placed third with 476 points while Matabeleland South and Midlands were fourth and fifth respectively. Some of the participants were chasing qualifying times for various tours, including the South Africa Senior and Junior Championships, and the CANA Zone IV Championships. Nkomazana said they had more athletes qualifying for the upcoming tours compared to the previous years. “We never had so many children qualifying for various tours like this year. The biggest number was in the (South Africa) National Juniors, where we had 22 swimmers qualifying to go to South Africa. “All the years in the past we always have had about, 10, 8, 12 (swimmers) qualifying. This year we have 22 qualifying and 10 going to South Africa Seniors. “So these are big numbers and a lot qualified for CANA (Zone IV) . . . So I can say 200 qualified for CANA, so we will just take the top two per event. We are allowed to enter two swimmers per event, per country,” said Nkomazana.