The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter HE describes himself as “just a boy”  who was nurtured at West City Academy in Bulawayo. But the coach who gave him his Castle Lager Premier Soccer League debut, Thulani Sibanda, describes him as a gem. Midfielder Arthur “Diego” Musiyiwa is one of the less-known recruits at Premiership giants Dynamos. But for those who know the pint-sized player, he is a machine and probably a piece of the puzzle which Dynamos might have been missing all along. The Glamour Boys last won the league title in 2014 and they look poised to challenge for the gong given the calibre of the signings they have made this off-season period. And Musiyiwa, according to Sibanda, is capable of carrying the dream for Dynamos. Sibanda first met Musiyiwa when he was playing for New West Academy and despite his minuteness, he decided to sign him at then lower division side Bulawayo Chiefs some eight years ago. The boy, though, wasn’t at a level required by then resulting in him being loaned to Amagagasi in Victoria Falls. But once Musiyiwa returned in 2017, he showed his class, even winning the ZIFA Southern Region Division One Soccer League best player award after helping the Sibanda-coached charges to promotion. And he has never looked back since then as he has been the main man carrying Bulawayo Chiefs in key moments including scoring the only goal in the Chibuku Super Cup final against Herentals at Barbourfields last year. And Sibanda has tipped him to flourish at the Harare giants. “I first saw Arthur Musiiwa when he was still a junior at New West City which was based in Lobengula. “I saw the potential he possessed during that time. “But with his small size, there were obviously doubts in terms of whether he would really stamp authority should he be given a chance at the highest level,” said Sibanda. “We took him on board at Bulawayo Chiefs in 2017 but we then decided not to throw him into the fray right away. “He then went to Amagagasi in Victoria Falls but we continued monitoring him. “After two seasons, we took him back to Bulawayo Chiefs and when we talk of our promotion into the PSL, we talk of Diego (Musiiwa). Even when we talk of our being formidable in the league for the past three seasons, we talk of Diego. “Even during times when things were hard and we were struggling to score, his colleagues would call him to fetch one or two tricks and save the day for us.  “He is a disciplined player who never complains. You can make him do anything and he will try his level best to do exactly that.  “In terms of character, he is one player I know can easily adapt to the pressure associated with playing for Chazunguza (Dynamos),” Sibanda said. He also has some words to share with Dynamos head coach Herbert ‘’Jompano’’ Maruwa, who is also a keen admirer of Musiyiwa. “The other thing is if the coach tries to get closer to him at a personal level, he will be sure to get the best out of him because he is someone who is very reserved. He is not an extrovert, he is an introvert. “He isn’t an outspoken character, so if the coach can get closer to him, he will be sure to get the best out of him.” Musiyiwa himself acknowledges his wasn’t an easy road to the top but reckons he is ready to help Dynamos win major accolades. “It was not an easy road for me because of my height but I would like to thank coach Thulani Sibanda for believing in me. “He is the one who brought me to Bulawayo Chiefs in 2017 when we were promoted into the PSL. “I was named the Soccer Star of the Year in the ZIFA Southern Region Division One League. “That was my breakthrough,” said Musiyiwa. “I was the top scorer for my team in our debut season. It made me feel very confident and before the Covid-19 scourge, several teams wanted to sign me. “I should say life at Dynamos is good. So far all is well and I feel the big name associated with Dynamos right in my blood. I am ready to help them win trophies but well, I am just a boy from New West Academy. “I was nicknamed by my colleagues at this Academy as they said I play more like what Diego Maradona used to during his heydays. “What I know is I will try to justify why I am at Dynamos.”