The Herald MANCHESTER. — Manchester United’s lethal forward Marcus Rashford has sent an ominous message to the rest of the English Premier League football teams by vowing not to “slow down” after continuing his blistering form with two goals in his side’s 3-0 win over Leicester City on Super Sunday. The England forward has scored 17 goals at Old Trafford across all competitions in 2022-23 — the most by a player in a single season for the club since Wayne Rooney in 2011-12 (19). His second-half strike was his 24th goal of the season in all competitions, his most in a single campaign for United. Sixteen of those 24 goals have come in 17 games since the end of the 2022 World Cup. On achieving his personal milestone, Rashford told Sky Sports: “It’s obviously a nice feeling to be scoring goals and ultimately winning games. I don’t think we played that well in the first half but in the second we played a lot better. “We found Bruno (Fernandes) in pockets, Fred, and they’re creating chances for us. We need to look to do that from the beginning but it’s also a positive that we’re still winning when not at our best. “There’s definitely things to learn and improve on but overall it’s a good day.” On his first goal, Rashford admits: “Initially, I was going to pass it as Garna (Alejandro Garnacho) made a good run but the defender was on the inside of him, so I thought shooting across the goal would be the best option. “There was a bit of relief about the first goal as David (De Gea) made an important save at 0-0. They are important moments. Without having someone like him in the net, we can’t go on and win the game.” United have lost just three of their last 22 matches in the English Premier League. Furthermore, the Red Devils have won more points than any other side in the English top-flight since the first game of that run (49). Rashford added: “It’s difficult not to keep pushing. We’re still early on in the season and we’re fighting for a lot of different things. “We have another big game coming up in midweek where we can hopefully reach the next round of the Europa League and then we have the Carabao Cup final next weekend, which is massive. “There’s always something to push and look forward to. I don’t feel like slowing down. I’m always looking to push and improve.” Rashford’s confident, low opener came after De Gea had kept United in it against Brendan Rodgers’ Leicester, denying Harvey Barnes and Kelechi Iheanacho with outstanding saves. It allowed the Spaniard to equal Peter Schmeichel’s club record of 180 clean sheets and provided the platform for victory, with Rashford’s second awarded after a VAR review before substitute Sancho struck. The three points keeps United’s Premier League title hopes alive and sets them up nicely for a pair of crucial games, with the return leg against Barcelona followed by the Carabao Cup final against Newcastle United. “We’re there and we’re close,” said Rashford when asked to assess the English Premier League title race. “At the same time, both teams in front of us (Arsenal and Manchester City) are really good teams — they’re playing good football at the minute so we just have to focus on ourselves.” Speaking ahead of Sunday’s game United boss Erik ten Hag told Sky Sports that signing Rashford up to a new deal is a priority. Rashford’s contract at Old Trafford is up in the summer of 2024 and Ten Hag is desperate to keep his top scorer, who has 22 goals in all competitions already this season. “Of course (Rashford’s new contract) is a priority,” Ten Hag said. “We are working on that, just sit and wait, but in the background we work hard. Of course (we have to keep him).” He added: “I think the team is in a good place and Marcus is definitely in a good place. We are happy with his performances. He is in such good form. You can keep that if you keep the right energy and put the right investment in. “Every game you have to take it as a new game. And you know at the moment that when Marcus comes into the position that he will score. When he is happy it gives him energy and a positive mood and then the goals will come. He has such great skills to score goals. — Sky Sports