The Herald Arts Reporter A Harare music promoter and businessman is opening a studio in the city targeting vulnerable emerging artistes who lack access to financial resources to record and market their music. The studio, set to open doors within a few months, will be operating free of charge, courtesy of philanthropic works by Lawrence Nyabanga, who runs Plawn Foundation, paying back business proceeds to the community. In an interview yesterday, Nyabanga said the studio will be opened within the second quarter of the year, with equipment already secured. “We bought state-of-the-art studio equipment from Dubai last year so now we are currently fitting and doing refurbishments in the studio,” he said. “We are expecting to finish and open before the end of the second quarter of this year. “The studio equipment includes state-of-the-art computers, digital audio work stations, audio interfaces, MIDI controllers, studio monitors, headphones, microphones and modern cameras which include the Black Magic which is mostly used by high profile artists.” Nyabanga said he started by giving a hand to some of the fully established artistes such as Mambo Dhuterere, Mark Ngwazi and Freeman over the years, but was now shifting focus to promoting emerging artists. “This year and going forward we are supporting vulnerable artists who are failing to progress in the music industry because of lack of funds. “So, once the studio is opened, everyone who feels that he/she has got a talent is free to record and the studio is open for any artist from all corners of this country.” “Once we open the studio, everyone who has a potential is free to come and record. We are not discriminating against anyone as the studio is meant to help anyone from all corners from this country.” Apart from helping the artistes, Nyabanga does other philanthropic works, including sending about 200 students to school, varying from primary to tertiary education as a part of his corporate and social responsibilities. “As part of our corporate and social responsibilities we are sending 200 students to school and in future we are planning to have more under our scholarship,” said Nyabanga.