The Herald Herald Reporter A director of vehicle spares and accessories company, MA Auto Supplies, Michael Gordon Smith, on Friday appeared in court for a routine remand hearing in a case in which he is accused of duping a co-director of US$11 000 and over R124 000. Smith, who has posted $100 000 bail after appearing before Harare magistrate Mr Dennis Mangosi, is expected back in court this week amid indications he is likely to face more fraud counts. He is accused of corruptly concealing transactions from his principal and now complainant, Michael Scot Asher, whom he prejudiced of thousands of dollars. According to the State outline, Asher left the country for Australia sometime in October 2019 and failed to return because of Covid-19 restrictions and only managed to return to Zimbabwe last September. On his return, Asher discovered that the company was paying its South African suppliers through a third party called Mant Procurement (Pvt) Ltd. Investigations showed that Mant Procurement was a South Africa-registered company co-owned by Smith and a South Africa-based associate, Tony Oatley. Smith had not disclosed this arrangement to his principal, Asher. MA Auto Supplies later discovered that Mant Procurement was overcharging the company and as a result, they suffered prejudice in excess of R100 000. Smith is alleged to have imported two tents using MA Auto Supplies (Pvt) Ltd’s resources under the pretext that the tents belonged to the company. He allegedly sold the tents to one Ms Horsley for US$1 800 before converting the cash to his own use. In October 2022, Smith allegedly used the same modus operandi to import a bumper for a station wagon vehicle and an RHS carrier and the customer deposited R24 259,83 into Mant Procurement (Pvt) Ltd’s FNB account held in South Africa. On another occasion, Smith was authorised by MA Auto Supplies to sell a Toyota Land Cruiser vehicle for US$7 500, but he allegedly released the vehicle after receiving only US$2 000. As a result, the company suffered prejudice to the sum of US$5 500. It is alleged that Smith attempted to sell three tool boxes to MA Auto Supplies when they already belonged to the company. The attempt exposed the company to potential prejudice of US$3 300.