The Herald WELLINGTON. — New Zealand’s top order unearthed some tenacity to close within 24 runs of England in their second innings yesterday and set up an absorbing last two days of the second Test cricket in Wellington. The hosts were 202-3 at stumps on day three, their gritty response after being asked to follow on founded on half-centuries by openers Tom Latham and Devon Conway. Kane Williamson was a patient 25 not out at the close, needing just four more runs to surpass Ross Taylor as New Zealand’s greatest test run-scorer. The former skipper will resume today alongside Henry Nicholls (18 not out) with New Zealand harbouring slim hopes of squaring the two-match series on a Basin Reserve pitch starting to offer turn and variable bounce. Only England (twice) and India have achieved the feat of winning a test after following on. A New Zealand victory looked a distant prospect when dismissed for 209 in their first innings midway through the morning session, 226 runs behind England’s 435-8 declared. Latham (83) and Conway (61) combined to frustrate England for 149 runs before the first wicket fell, unveiling some much-needed combative qualities in a series dominated by England’s impressive seam bowling and some fragile Black Caps top-order batting. New Zealand’s foothold in the game loosened when both openers and Will Young (8) fell in the space of 18 runs, all to spin, to leave them 167-3 before Williamson and Nicholls dug in. Jack Leach was the pick of England’s attack, taking 2-59 off 31 overs, with his ball to bowl Young a textbook delivery for a left-arm spinner. Part-time tweaker Joe Root also found turn, trapping Latham lbw from a rare loose in the opener’s 172 balls at the crease. England are still well placed to notch a seventh straight Test win and secure a 2-0 series sweep after their 267-run first test triumph at Mount Maunganui. The key will be removing Williamson, who has been well short of his best form in the series, tallying 10 runs in three previous innings. — AFP.