The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S top professional golfer Scott Vincent started his 2023 Asian Tour campaign on a brighter note after he finished the first round of this week’s PIF Saudi International powered by Softbank Investments Advisers at Royal Greens Golf and Country Club on position six after an impressive four-under-par 68 opening round. The Zimbabwean is among the leaders going into today’s second and decisive round after he maintained his composure despite playing alongside some of the world’s best golfers. Vincent, who is good at improving with each round, goes into today’s second round trailing leader Abraham Ancer of Portugal by three shots. Tied on sixth place with South Africa’s Ian Snyman, Portuguese Carlos Ortiz and American Jason Kokrak, the Zimbabwean player has an opportunity to make the cut after today’s round. Starting off in the front nine, Vincent opened with two birdies before he got an eagle in hole number three. He had some pars on holes four and five before he dropped a shot in number seven. Completing the first nine on 33 points from a possible 35, the first round had Vincent’s birdies coming in holes number 10, 14 and 18 and he dropped a shot in number 11 for another 33. The 30-year-old is rubbing shoulders with some of the finest golfers as the field includes former winners of the PIF Saudi International — Dustin Johnson (2019, 2021), Graeme McDowell (2020) and defending champion Harold Varner III (2022). Other notables playing at Royal Greens include Miami team captains Cameron Smith (one-over), Phil Mickelson (par), Bryson DeChambeau, Sergio Garcia (five-under), Joaquin Niemann (one-under), Louis Oosthuizen (five-under), Ian Poulter (two-over) and Kevin Na (three-over). LIV Golf supports the Asian Tour through the International Series, elevated events that provide additional playing opportunities for LIV members as well as a pathway for other golfers to play LIV Golf events. By winning last year’s International Series Order of Merit winner, Zimbabwe’s Vincent gained playing privileges for the upcoming 2023 LIV Golf season. This year’s International Series will include 10 events, starting with International Series Oman on February 9-12. Each event will include a prize purse of at least US$2 million.  The players are expected to take their golf clubs to the LIV Golf Mayakoba from February 24-26 at El Camaleon Golf Course in Mexico.