The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter DYNAMOS recruit Nyasha Chintuli believes, in hindsight, he could have notched more than 15 goals in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League had he opted to stay at Ngezi Platinum Stars last season. The 28-year-old started the term like a house on fire, scoring four goals in the opening three games while turning out for the Mhondoro-based team. But the former Tenax and Triangle man would shift base to Manica Diamonds where he somehow paled, ending the season with just 10 goals and failing to even make the Soccer Stars of the Year calendar. And he has been handed a lifetime opportunity to showcase himself at Dynamos where he has been reunited with Denver Mukamba, who is probably the main factor he had at Ngezi Platinum and lacked at Manica Diamonds. The pair was very close both on and off the field of play while they were still at the platinum miners, with their in-field chemistry often shredding their opponents. Chintuli’s goals in all competitions were mostly engineered by the talented Mukamba while the latter was also a beneficiary of the former’s brilliance. And the two can’t stop dreaming of another fruitful romance at the Glamour Boys. While this is Chintuli’s first time at the country’s biggest club, Mukamba is making a third reunion with the Harare giants. And Chintuli feels the vast experience Mukamba has accumulated playing for Dynamos will not only be handy to the team but to him as well. “I feel great to have been reunited with my long-time friend Denver Mukamba at Dynamos. He is incredibly talented and is more than just a teammate to me. We enjoy a sound working relationship and we have so many memories together. “I should say, Denver (Mukamba) is one of those guys who helped me improve my game when I joined Ngezi Platinum in 2021,” said Chintuli. “I played just three league games at Ngezi Platinum last season and scored four goals. Mukamba was the mastermind in engineering those goals and I can confidently say had I not moved from Ngezi Platinum, with Mukamba in the team, I could have scored more than 15 goals. “However, life is what it is. I am very happy I have been reunited with this maestro at Dynamos. I am raring to go and I know Denver, who has a lot of Premiership experience, will be there too. We can reignite our Ngezi Platinum romance and help Dynamos achieve their goals.” Mukamba, whose talent has been marred by his bad-boy habits, has since promised to repay the faith shown to him by Dynamos coach Herbert “Jompano’’ Maruwa although he has not yet been officially unveiled. Besides Mukamba and Chintuli’s sweet reunion at DeMbare, there are several players and staff who have reunited at the club and could help the Glamour Boys in terms of chemistry. The twin Moyo brothers, Kelvin and Elvis, have hardly been apart in their playing career. They made a name for themselves at FC Platinum before they settled at Bulawayo Chiefs via some brief spells in South Africa and Zambia. The duo helped Bulawayo Chiefs win the Chibuku Super Cup last year following a 1-0 victory over Herentals in the final. They are reuniting at Dynamos with former Bulawayo Chiefs teammate Arthur “Diego” Musiyiwa. Midfielder Donald Mudadi, who was groomed by Maruwa at Black Rhinos, has played with defender Donald Dzvinyai at Triangle and Harare City and they will carry the spirit to the Glamour Boys. Besides previous engagement with Mudadi, Maruwa himself resuscitated Congolese striker Eli Ilunga’s career. The big forward had been off-loaded by FC Platinum but Maruwa decided to give him a lift at Black Rhinos where he thrived so much that he was named among the 2022 Soccer Stars of the Year finalists after scoring 10 goals, including arguably the best goal across the league against Highlanders. Another new DeMbare signing Tanaka “Kante” Shandirwa will not be without a companion as well after his former coach at Yadah, Genesis “Kaka” Mangombe, joined Dynamos as Maruwa’s assistant. Maruwa said the reunions could be magical as he bids to restore DeMbare’s lost glamour. “The good thing is that all the players we have taken aboard have Premiership experience. Football is the same and I am happy no one is really isolated. We are trying to build some good bonds amongst the players,” said Maruwa. “Those previous relationships can help a lot in terms of moving forward. Team bonding is key and we will try to build a unit between these boys. So far, I am happy with what I am seeing and hopefully it will help.”