The Herald Eddie Chikamhi Senior Sports Reporter HE has only been with the team for just over a month, but batsman Gary Ballance did not need much time to settle among his new teammates in the Zimbabwe cricket squad. In fact, the left hander announced himself in a big way on his Test debut for Zimbabwe when he featured in a historic century knock that helped the home side earn a draw against the West Indies. The 33-year-old is not new to the game however, having previously played 23 Tests for England before switching allegiance recently back to the country of his birth. Ballance became only the third Zimbabwean player to score a ton on debut after the legendary Dave Houghton (121), who is now the current head coach, and former captain Hamilton Masakadza (119). His unbeaten 137 during the first Test became the highest score by a Zimbabwean on debut. But the 33-year-old, who had scored four more Test centuries and seven half tons for England, has established himself as one of the key men in the ongoing Test series against the West Indies at Queens Sports Club. The second Test is expected to begin tomorrow. The Harare-born Ballance availed himself for Zimbabwe when he signed a two-year deal with Zimbabwe Cricket in December following his release from Yorkshire. Ballance officially joined the side last month. The former Mid-West Rhinos player said the welcoming environment he found in the Zimbabwe change room has made it easier for him to settle. “It’s been amazing,” he said. “Every single player, coach has been very welcoming to me and obviously I knew a few of the guys from playing at Mid-West Rhinos. “They have welcomed me into the squad and it makes a lot of a difference when you come to a new team and everyone is welcoming and you are made to feel part of the group. It makes it easier to go out there and perform,” said Ballance. The left-hander has been a brilliant addition to the home side, which is missing about five of their top players through injuries and franchise cricket commitments. In the absence of captain Sean Williams, Sikandar Raza, Blessing Muzarabani, Tendai Chatara and Ryan Burl, the Zimbabwe squad featured as many as seven uncapped players before the first Test. Five players, including Ballance were handed their debut caps in the drawn game, and they did not disappoint against a full strength Windies side. Apart from the home records, Ballance also inscribed his name into the history books of Test cricket as he became just the second player in the history of the game to have scored Test centuries for two different countries, following in the footsteps of former Australia and South Africa international Kepler Wessels. He came in when Zimbabwe were facing the prospect of a significant first-innings deficit, or potentially even following on after the West Indies had declared on 447/6 on the back of rain interruptions in the first two days. Ballance steadied the ship before accelerating the scoring. His outstanding 135-run partnership with Brandon Mavuta got Zimbabwe out of trouble, with Ballance still out in the middle unbeaten on 137 when his captain Craig Ervine made the bold decision to declare in the hope of forcing a result. There were also some bold performances, especially from debutants Innocent Kaia, Tanunurwa Makoni and Tafadzwa Tsiga, who are expected to have gained more confidence going into the second Test. Ballance’s experience, which he gained from his 42 appearances for England across all three formats between 2014 and 2017, is key for the Zimbabwe side. He has also featured in one T20I and two ODIs for Zimbabwe in January during the whiteball series against Ireland, and he seems to be enjoying the game. “I can’t describe how proud I am to firstly represent Zimbabwe and then to score a hundred. There is just no feeling better than that,” he said after the history-making knock. “I am so glad to be back here and I have had a great month and half in terms of being involved with the team and the guys are so welcoming. I am very proud to be representing Zimbabwe. It’s just nice to be back here. It’s very special. “There is a big following of cricket in the country and that’s great. It’s nice to be able to play some Test matches. Obviously, it’s the pinnacle of cricket and, just being able to contribute and make some runs and put a fight for our side, I hope the people have been watching our performances in the last three-four days and see that we have really put up a fight and we can compete with the best in the world,” said Ballance. Zimbabwe are set to retain the same squad that gallantly fought for a draw in the first game. But the home team would need to work more in the field after going for 114 overs without taking a wicket in the first game. Brendan Mavuta who got his maiden fiver is expected to take it up from where he left off. Zimbabwe Test Squad: Craig Ervine (captain), Gary Ballance, Chamunorwa Chibhabha, Tanaka Chivanga, Bradley Evans, Joylord Gumbie, Innocent Kaia, Tanunurwa Makoni, Wellington Masakadza, Kudzai Maunze, Brandon Mavuta, Richard Ngarava, Victor Nyauchi, Milton Shumba, Donald Tiripano, Tafadzwa Tsiga. West Indies Test Squad: Kraigg Brathwaite (C), Jermaine Blackwood, Nkrumah Bonner, Tagenarine Chanderpaul, Roston Chase, Joshua Da Silva, Shannon Gabriel, Kemar Roach, Jason Holder, Alzarri Joseph, Kyle Mayers, Raymon Reifer, Devon Thomas, Jomel Warrican, Gudakesh Motie