The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter SPECIAL Olympics Zimbabwe director Lilian Chikara says they are ready for the World Games set for Berlin, Germany, from July 17 to 25. Team Zimbabwe had their first training camp at the National Sports Stadium for track and field events and at Royal Harare for the golf team. Chikara said they are in the right track and will conclude the final registration of the team today. Zimbabwe are expected to take part in athletics and golf at this year’s edition of the World Games. “We are ready for the games coming up later this year and we successfully had our first camp from January 24-28 and the team is taking shape. We will conclude with the registration tomorrow (today) after our first camp where we worked on the timing. “The athletes are more than ready and we are hopeful of doing well at the Games. We want to improve from our last outing where we managed to win several medals,” said Chikara. Zimbabwe managed to do well in golf and athletics but SOZ are still appealing to the corporate world to come on board so that they continue with their preparations. “So far we are progressing well and I am grateful to some individuals and corporates who came on board to support us. Delta Beverages came on board with US$6 000 which helped us for our first training camp and we have written to several others. “We are also looking forward to the Ministry of Sport to come on board so that we have proper preparations,” added Chikara. The Special Olympics World Games are the world’s largest inclusive sports event with over 7 000 athletes with intellectual disabilities expected to compete in 22 sporting codes. The aim of the global games is to unleash the human spirit through the transformative power and joy of sports and to empower people with intellectual disabilities to become accepted and valued members of their communities, which leads to a more respectful and inclusive society for all. Former Germany national football team’s captain, Phillip Lahm, is one of the honoured guests who will be taking an active role during the Games as well as presiding over the official opening and closing ceremonies.