The Herald Crime Reporter
CROSS border bus and truck drivers are believed to be part of a syndicate smuggling illicit drugs into Zimbabwe with the police and other authorities responding by increasing surveillance and checks at all border posts as the operation against drug suppliers and peddlers intensifies. There have been reports that most of these drivers are paid to smuggle illicit substances into the country for onward transmission to dealers and peddlers. Other bus drivers on intercity routes are also part of the distribution network. Police are however, on high alert and any driver found with drugs will be arrested and prosecuted and their buses or haulage trucks will be impounded. Recently, police said they were also now conducting door-to-door searches to flush out drug dealing. Suspected drug havens have been raided by police carrying out random stop and search operations. On Tuesday, they arrested 387 more people countrywide bringing the total number arrested on drug charges since last Friday to 1 023. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi yesterday said enough details had been deployed at all border posts. “We have deployed and we are monitoring the situation. There is no going back in the fight against drugs and other illicit substances. “As we conduct this operation, we are targeting buses and haulage trucks which are involved in smuggling drugs, they will certainly not be left out. Action will be taken and they will be arrested and prosecuted while their buses and haulage trucks will be impounded,” he said. So far police have recovered large quantities of mbanje, crystal methamphetamine, commonly referred to as “mutoriro” and bottles of banned addictive cough syrups such as Broncleer, Benylin with codeine and Adco-Salterpyn syrup, among other illicit substances. Some home owners in Harare operating shebeens and believed to be suppliers and distributors of dangerous drugs were also raided. Dubbed “No to dangerous drugs and illicit substances: See something, say something”, the operation comes after Government instructed police to redouble their efforts against drug lords supplying unwanted substances to youths. Police are still consolidating information about the quantities of the drugs that they have recovered so far. A policeman, Kunyongana Masimba, was arrested with two others while allegedly working with a Sunningdale drug dealer distributing drugs from a vehicle on Saturday night. Masimba, who is from Sunningdale Police Station and his co-accused Mathew Kuimba and Assam Manyamba, appeared before Harare Magistrate Mr Dennis Mangosi and were remanded to April 5 on $20 000 bail each. The Government has said the rounding up of drug kingpins would help save young people many of whom were struggling with drug addiction. Police said they would now mount roadblocks, stop and search motorists and even passengers on vehicles.