The Herald LONDON. — Kent’s Zimbabwean batter Tawanda Muyeye has extended his contract with the English cricket club until the end of 2025. The 21-year-old right-hander, who was born in Zimbabwe, has featured in all three formats since joining ahead of the start of the 2021 campaign. “Tawanda is a highly talented young player who is held in high regard by the coaching staff here,” director of cricket Paul Downton said. “He has a very high ceiling — we have seen glimpses of his talent already.” The 21-year-old batter, who joined the club ahead of the 2021 season, has made 27 appearances for Kent in all formats, scoring 716 runs. In 10 Championship outings, he has scored 414 runs at 29.57, including four half-centuries. With the white ball, he has a further 221 runs at 24.55 in 11 List A outings and 81 runs at a strike rate around 120 in six T20 Blast appearances. Commenting on his contract extension, Muyeye said: “I’m really excited to continue my journey as a professional cricketer at Kent. “I’m so grateful to have been given the opportunity to play for this team across all formats — I’m still at the beginning of my career but to have been afforded these chances to play and keep improving has been a great motivator for me in becoming the best cricketer I can be.” Director of cricket, Downton, added: “Tawanda is a highly talented young player who is held in high regard by the coaching staff here and we’re delighted to secure his status as a Kent player for the next three seasons. “He is one of the hardest workers in the side and has a very high ceiling — we have seen glimpses of his talent already as a Kent player. “If he continues to work hard I am sure he will be a big part of our future at Kent.” The right-hander joined the club on the eve of the 2021 season after being named Wisden Schools Cricketer of the Year, & has 31 appearances for the country in his burgeoning career so far. As the 21-year-old’s first-class batting average reaches almost 30.00, he has represented Kent across all formats over the past two seasons — including an innings full of promise opening the batting in a Vitality Blast match away to Surrey this past season. A fine stroke maker, Muyeye has already caught the eye of cricket supporters across the country with how he approaches the game. Alongside his unique style of batting, he has also become a fine outfielder with a number of memorable fielding performances during Kent’s white-ball campaigns. — Agencies