The Herald LUTON. — Marvelous Nakamba is relishing the intensity of the English Championship football as he looks to help Luton Town reach the play-offs for a second successive season. The 29-year-old made his first start for the Hatters in their 1-1 draw at Coventry at the weekend, having arrived on loan from Aston Villa on transfer deadline day. Zimbabwe international Nakamba had a knee injury last season and had not played for Villa this term. “Life happens and now is the time to get back (into it),” he said. “The injury came up after I had been player of the month. I am really grateful to Luton for giving me the chance. I’m going to give everything and always be positive.” Nakamba was slotted into a role in front of the defence by boss Rob Edwards, with the primary task of breaking up Coventry possession. “It was up to me to be alert, and to be ready for counter-attacks by them,” he told BBC Three Counties Radio. “I am looking forward to helping the team achieve the project. I like the intensity of the Championship and there are a lot of games here.” Nakamba’s former Villa team-mate Henri Lansbury and fellow Zimbabwean Admiral Muskwe have been helping him settle in at Kenilworth Road. “There are good lads in the dressing room, they are good players — it’s more like a family,” he said. “I didn’t have to be solitary, everyone has been welcoming me, so it’s easy for me to get on with every player.” Luton are fourth in the table, four points clear of Sunderland, the team immediately below the top six — but 12 points adrift of the top two. They were away to Preston last night before a home game against leaders Burnley on Saturday. At the weekend, Nakamba impressed during his first start of the season after completing his loan move to Luton Town. The Zimbabwe international joined the Hatters in January after significantly falling down the pecking order at Villa Park. The 29-year-old was named among the substitutes on 10 occasions for Villa this season but manager Unai Emery allowed him to leave, having yet to feature this term. The holding midfielder made the switch to Kenilworth Road on deadline day, where he was signed by former Villa defender Edwards. Nakamba swiftly made his debut for the club from the bench against Stoke before being named in the starting XI for the first time in Luton’s draw with Coventry City on Saturday. He had looked set to be a key man for Villa under Steven Gerrard last season before a knee injury in December 2021 saw him sidelined until April, making four further appearances before the end of the campaign. Nakamba subsequently found himself firmly stuck behind the likes of Boubacar Kamara and Douglas Luiz for a starting berth — but Luton boss Edwards was full of praise for his new arrival, though he could not resist the obvious pun. “I thought he was marvellous! I did, I thought he was great,” he told Luton Today. “I wasn’t sure how long he was going to play, but he’s like a Duracell battery, he just kept going and going and going and going and going. “I thought he was outstanding, covers the pitch so well, smells the danger and then really calm with the ball, I’m delighted with him.” — BBC Sport 