The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter WARRIORS midfielder Marvelous Nakamba has had an ideal landing at his new English Championship football club Luton Town where he will not be short on home company following The Hatters’ decision to recall their Zimbabwean forward Admiral Muskwe from loan. Nakamba joined the English Championship side on a six-month loan from English Premiership side Aston Villa on Tuesday’s winter transfer deadline day. The 29-year-old had been reduced into an outcast at Villa Park where he failed to see action since the beginning of the current season in August last year. He had been told by manager Unai Emery to look for an alternative home and Luton Town tabled a loan offer for him. He will be hoping to get some game-time at the Bedfordshire club to get his confidence back. And Nakamba would not have yearned for anything better than finding a compatriot who knows the terrain at Luton Town well – Muskwe. The pair has shared the hanger several times in the Warriors fold and they will be hoping to conjure up some magic for Rob Edwards side during the second half of the 2022/2023 season. Muskwe himself is making a dream return to Luton Town from a loan at English League One side Fleetwood Town. The 24-year-old is making a come-back before the end of his loan spell which was supposed to lapse at the end of the season. He joined Fleetwood Town in August last year and has spent just six months with the third-tier side where he scored three goals in 17 appearances. It’s believed Muskwe’s recalling just six months into his loan stay has been done to make Nakamba, whom Luton Town rate highly, feel as comfortable as he can. This is a team which is angling for English Premier League promotion next season although face a huge task to dislodge leaders Burnley and Sheffield United who occupy the two automatic qualification slots. Luton beat Cardiff City 1-0, courtesy of a late penalty converted by Elijah Adebayo to move to fourth on the English Championship table to reinforce their chances of chasing promotion via the play-offs should they fail to do so automatically. Muskwe is, like Nakamba, expected to get significant game-time as compared to his initial stay, following the departure of striker Harry Cornick to Bristol City. Luton Town released a statement just about the same time they revealed the capture of Nakamba confirming the return of Muskwe on Tuesday night. ‘’We can confirm that forward Admiral Muskwe has been recalled following his loan spell at Sky Bet League One side Fleetwood Town. The 24-year-old made a total of 17 appearances during his time at Highbury Stadium, scoring three times. ‘’Welcome back to Kenilworth Road, Ade!’’ Even before his departure to Fleetwood, Muskwe still had Edwards’ trust. The gaffer had told the Luton Today newspaper that Muskwe was still a valuable player. “It’s evaluating what’s best for him. “He’ll be a valuable member of our squad, it’s just what game time he has and then you have to balance that against development and improvement. “If he stays in and around us, he’ll play games, then it’s how many games he plays and we’ll have a decision,” he said last year. “Would 15-20 games wherever, would that benefit him? “So it’s all these decisions we have to make.” Jones added: “Admiral’s really close, we always trust in him. “We like him, he has something totally different from what we have, it’s just how much are we going to use him? “We have to be fair to him, to everyone really, and keep everyone moving forward. “Then, of course, Admiral has to take those opportunities when he gets them.” There are reports Nakamba could join Luton Town permanently at the end of his loan spell, creating room for even a lengthier stay for him and Muskwe.