The Herald NAIROBI. — Zimbabweans Robson Chinhoi, Nyasha Muyambo and Visitor Mapwanya have taken the top three positions on the Safari Tour as the series concluded at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club on Wednesday. Mapwanya upset Kenyan professionals after rolling three under par 68 for a total of three under par 281 in the four-day tournament. He edged out Round Three leader Greg Snow, who fired two under par 69 for a total of two under par 282, same as Great Rift’s Jastas Madoya. Mapwanya’s 68 was good enough to starve off Snow, Round Two leader Mutahi Kibugu and Round One leader Samuel Njoroge in the 54-hole tournament. Mapwanya rolled a single birdie in the opening nine with all pars to collect 35 gross but his second nine paid off, despite firing a bogey in the 14th. He had three birdies in the 10th, 13th and 18th. “A birdie in the 18th hole saved me after struggling in a number of holes in today’s round,” said Mapwanya. His win helped compatriot Chinhoi dislodge series defending champion Snow. Muyambo finished second overall with Mapwanya completing the top three positions. Meanwhile, with the conclusion of the Kenya Open Golf Limited organised Safari Tour Golf Series which marked its sixth edition this year, focus now shifts to the 2023 Magical Kenya Open Golf tournament, a DP World Tour event to be held at Muthaiga Golf Club from March 9 to 12. Speaking during the prize-giving ceremony of the 2022/23 Safari Tour final leg won by Zimbabwe’s Mapwanya, Kenya Open tournament director Patrick Obath said the Open launch will be held as soon as sponsorship issues are finalised. “Sponsorship has not been easy not only for the Safari Tour but even for the Magical Kenya Open, but we are on it, and hopefully we will announce all the final arrangements,’’ said Obath. He said it was the intention of the Kenya Open Golf Limited to not only improve the Safari Tour beyond the East African borders to countries like Zimbabwe, Malawi, Zambia, Tanzania, Rwanda and Tanzania, but also increase the prize fund per event so that is able to attract the leading professionals in Africa. “As of now, we have been having events in Kenya and Uganda only but I believe it is a matter of time, that the Safari will be able to spread its wings to a number of African countries thus players will be able to play at least in every month for a better prize fund,’’ added Obath who also announced the names of Kenya’s qualifiers for the 2023 Magical Kenya Open as well as the two regional qualifiers. Leading the eight Kenyan qualifiers is Greg Snow of Muthaiga Golf Club who scored a total of 236 points despite having failed to capture any  title in the 2022/23 season, Samuel Njoroge who won the Karen leg (217), Dismas Indiza on 184, Simon Ngige (179), Mutahi Kibugu (169), Justus Madoya (159), Daniel Nduva (141) and Mike Kisia who scored 114 points. Of the eight Kenyans, only Daniel Nduva and Samuel Njoroge won at least one event each in the six-events tour, while the rest were won by Zimbabwe’s Chinhoi who won the Uganda Open and the Sigona leg, while Muyambo claimed the Limuru leg, with Mapwanya completing the series with a one shot victory at Muthaiga. Unfortunately, Chinhoi who won a number of events in the fifth season as well, missed an opportunity to play in the Open, after failing to make cut at Karen, while he missed the Muthaiga event after failing to register at the required deadline. Thus Mapwanya overtook him on the points table with a total of 234 points against Chinhoi’s 200 points. Uganda’s Ronald Rugumayo came second among the regional players after scoring a total of 212 points, to join Mapwanya in the Open next month. The six Kenyan amateurs who qualified for the Magical Kenya Open 2023 are Dennis Maara, the Kenya Amateur Match Play Champion from Limuru, Railway’s John Lejirmah who is the Stroke Play Champion and Golfer of the Year 2022, Adel Balala from Nyali Golf and Country Club, Jay Sandhu, Njoroge Kibugu and Daniel Kiragu all from Muthaiga Golf Club. Muthaiga Safari Tour final leaderboard Visitor Mapwanya (Zim) 281 Greg Snow (Muthaiga)- 282 Jastas Madoya (Great Rift)- 282 Mutahi Kibugu (Muthaiga)- 282 Gaita Rodell (Uga)- 283 Daniel Nduva (Nyali)- 283 Jay sandhu (Railways) 288 Alloys Nsabimana- 289 Dismas Indiza (Mumias)- 289 Nyasha Muyambo (Zim) – 291.