The Herald Tina Musonza Arts Correspondent Rising gospel artist, Veronica Kwati, with several albums to her name, has encouraged people to pursue their talents, believing in God who bestows them on every individual. Kwati, leader of ‘The True Divine’ music outfit, said her albums, including ‘Ishe Munenyasha’, ‘Varume Tirangane’, ‘Vanogona Baba’ and ‘Huyai Tibate Basa’, speak of her everyday experience with God. “My music solely focuses on the upliftment of people in society. It is about exalting God at all times and learning to trust Him in all the situations,” she said. “Be it marriage, I will exalt the Lord saying it is due to His everlasting mercy. On the album ‘Ishe Munenyasha’ I was saying we no longer want to live in the past, but to be good ambassadors of Christ.” Kwati said on the album ‘Mwari Pindirai’, she was simply saying God bestowed a talent on each individual although sometimes personal or family backgrounds seem to make one fail to fully utilise it. “If you look at people in rural areas, most are deprived of their talents due to limited resources or exposure in the areas they will be confined to,” she said. Kwati said some of the talents were being suppressed as the rural folks spent much of their time doing chores such as herding cattle and fetching firewood. She said as the title of the album ‘Mwari Pindirai’ depicts, it talks of God having to intervene to save the talents of the marginalised people. “I was focusing on my upbringing, that I was multi-talented but it took time to be noticed until I came to Harare,” said Kwati. She urged people to defy odds by being courageous and taking risks to showcase their talents in order to reach set goals. Kwati said it was important to interrogate one’s background and connect it with the present looking at the way God had been leading one to achieve and showcase own talent. “This album is a reminder to people that you need to identify yourself with the certain talent you were given by God and showcase it,” she said. “That is how you grow when you take risks to challenge divisive societal norms.” Kwati said although people were encountering challenges in life, gospel music should remain a balm for the collective spirit which can help people discover their talents and utilise them.