The Herald Victor Maphosa Mashonaland East Bureau A block of two science laboratories has been built at Chitimbe High School in Uzumba Maramba Pfungwe using devolution funds, in a development that will enable learners to take up pure sciences at the school. The block, whose construction was spearheaded by the Government through the Uzumba Maramba Pfungwe Zvataida Rural District Council (RDC), is complete. Fittings have been set and commissioning of the science laboratories is expected soon. During a recent tour of the school’s science labs, Uzumba Maramba Pfungwe Zvataida RDC environmental officer Mr Masimba Goustino said they will continue to develop the area, leaving no one and no place behind. “This is one of the schools to enjoy the fruits of devolution funds. Here we are building two science laboratories, one for the juniors another one for senior learners,” said Mr Goustino. “The community started this project and devolution (funds) came in now to assist. To date we have managed to put fittings, tiles, and electricity, among other developments. “We are very grateful to President Mnangagwa for devolution funds, he is a visionary leader. We hope to see doctors, engineers and other scientists being produced having started their journey from this school.” Chitimbe High School headmaster Mr Everisto Gomwe commended the Government for availing funds that have changed the face of the school. He said the science laboratories will assist learners to carry out practicals, as was expected under Education 5.0 “This project started long back,” said Mr Gomwe. “Parents started it and worked up to window level and then devolution funds came in through our local authority and carried on with the construction up to where we are today. “The coming in of these labs is God-sent, not only to the school but to the district as a whole. This project will give a different shape to the school and the district as a whole. “I would like to thank our Councillor who is behind this project. Also special thanks to our local authority for allowing Chitimbe High School to benefit from the devolution funds. We also want to extend our gratitude to President Mnangagwa for initiating projects under devolution funds, we are here now enjoying the benefits of his initiative.” Form 4 learner at Chitimbe High School, Godknows Nyamukapa, said they will be able to do pure sciences at the school. He thanked Government for devolution funds. “We have been doing sciences without a laboratory and it has been hard for us,” he said. “However, we are thankful to Government and the Uzumba Maramba Pfungwe Zvataida RDC for using devolution funds to build two science laboratories at Chitimbe. “We pray that the laboratories be opened soon so that we start to benefit. This is commendable; thank you also our councillor and our Member of Parliament.”