The Herald Tina Musonza and Rejoice Makoni THE National Merit Awards (NAMA) are set to cater for two red carpets which aim to put superstars on the spotlight at the upcoming glitz and glamorous event where nominees, performers and presenters in various arts genres will have their dreams finally unlocked. This was said during. NAMA events planner Napoleon Nyanhi said at a press conference in Harare yesterday the red carpet was a lifestyle-changing moment and had to be treated with value. “The red carpet is a lifestyle piece within the awards show and it showcases superstars and National Merit Awards is an arts event which celebrates arts super stars,” he said. “With the increase of the popularity of NAMA, it comes with administrative challenges. “What we have done this year is we have created two red carpets, the red carpet A and B, both in the VIP, both lit with a banner and everything is the same. The red carpet usually requires 3 to 4 hours to do. Taking pictures, interviews and all the work that happens on the red carpet. “There is one red carpet where you need to have a red carpet pass to get on. The red carpet pass has been given to our nominees and to our superstar celebrities. It is their night; it is the night for the arts. We have got that red carpet for them only. “For all our VIPs, we have the red carpet B which will be behind the first carpet, but is exactly the same. It is lit and has camera people and everything. People will be getting photos on that side. What we have done is instead of saying we have made an exclusive red carpet, we have just made two red carpets for expediency and to keep it moving.” Nyanhi said NAMA had set certain standards to maintain the global market anchored on national recognition. He said only 59 artistes from dancers, singers, writers, poets, actors and others would be exhibiting at the event. In his remarks, National Arts Council of Zimbabwe deputy director Josiah Kusena said Zimbabwean arts had vast potential to remain alive and kicking within the global markets. “NAMA is a National Arts Council fraction in terms of recognising, rewarding and promoting creativity, innovations within the arts sector,” he said. “What is important is that the NAMA awards open doors for you, both national and at the international level. “We are very happy with what NAMA is all about and also that on the basis of representing what the Government of Zimbabwe offers its artistes and their audiences. In our quest that Zimbabweans get the best from our artistes we, do make sure that artistes aspire at the national level.” Kusena urged all upcoming artistes to put confidence strides forward and tap into the arts industry. Nyanhi said NAMA was receiving a boost through stakeholders, including Old Mutual, CBZ, Jacaranda Culture & Media Corporation and others. He said tickets were still being available online and from selected shops.