The Herald Crime Reporter By Monday this week, 2 152 people had been arrested countrywide under the ongoing crackdown against drug suppliers and peddlers. On Sunday alone, police arrested 96 people across the country under the operation code-named, “No to dangerous drugs and illicit substances, with another 24 being picked up on Monday. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said the operation was continuing until there is sanity. Police would continue conducting raids, stop and searches, manning roadblocks and also target those involved in smuggling at the country’s exit and entry points. Last week, police raided suspected drug dealers in Mbare, Harare, as they intensified the crackdown against drug suppliers and peddlers. The Mbare raids included Nzimbe in Matapi, Mbare Musika and some houses that were being used to make illicit brews. This came after police had also warned cross-border bus and truck drivers, who are believed to be part of the drugs smuggling syndicate, to stop the practice or face dire consequences. Police and other authorities have since increased surveillance and checks at all border posts as the operation against drug suppliers and peddlers intensifies. There have been reports that many of the drivers are paid to smuggle illicit substances into the country for delivery to dealers and peddlers. Other bus drivers on intercity routes are also part of the distribution network. Police are, however, on high alert and any driver found with drugs will be arrested and prosecuted and their buses or haulage trucks impounded. Recently, police said they were also now conducting door-to-door searches to flush out drug dealing. Suspected drug havens have been randomly raided by police carrying out stop and search operations. So far, police have recovered large quantities of mbanje, crystal methamphetamine commonly referred to as mutoriro and bottles of banned addictive cough syrups such as Broncleer, Benylin with codeine and Adco-Salterpyn syrup, among other illicit substances. Some home owners in Harare operating shebeens and believed to be suppliers and distributors of dangerous drugs were also raided. Dubbed “No to dangerous drugs and illicit substances: See something, say something”, the operation comes after the Government instructed police to redouble their efforts against drug lords. Rounding up drug kingpins will help save young people, many of whom are struggling with drug addiction. Roadblocks will also be mounted where motorists will be stopped and searched, together with their passengers.