The Herald Arts Reporter Gospel music stars Ellard Cherayi and wife Sharon Manyonganise Cherayi continue to strike gold in their musical journey after having released two songs from the live DVD recording done last year. The two tracks “Anosimudza” and “Hallelujah” are part of the four tracks from the Live DVD Recording called “God the Lifter of Men” written by Michael “Tiki” Manyika and Sharon. In an interview, Cherayi said the inspiration of the songs came from the “Word of God” and how it encourages individuals who are burdened to find comfort in knowing that God is with them. “He wipes away tears when we cry, and comforts us when we are hurting,” he said. “They encourage themselves by knowing that Jesus is alive, and is a light that shines in darkness to remove burdens, this is the inspiration.” Cherayi said it was an honour to do the live DVD recording. “It feels humbling, for a lack of a better word, knowing that this song will encourage someone, give hope and uplift someone who had lost all hope in life, but get an assurance that God is right there with them,” he said. Talking of the couple’s experience last year, Cherayi said it was a good year for them. “It is the year we managed to release our first collaboration called “Fara Iwe Moyo Wangu”, which is doing quite well on radio airwaves. “We also managed to record our debut Live DVD recording called ‘God the Lifter of Men’, scheduled to be released soon.” Cherayi said last year, the duo held concerts in different cities across the nation, sang in some churches and held workshops teaching, Praise and Worship teams from various denominations in Zimbabwe. “We went on tour in four different countries, namely England, Australia, South Africa and Mozambique where we held concerts, workshops and church ministries,” he said. “We ended the year by being ordained as pastors under AFM of Zimbabwe.” Cherayi and Sharon are not the first gospel music couple to emerge from Zimbabwe. They are following in the footsteps of Charles and Olivia Charamba, Ephraim and Respina Patai, Tamuka (now late) and Elizabeth Chinouriri, Tom and Bonnie Deuschle, among others. Cherayi said it was quite an honour that some sections were comparing their way of doing things to that of popular gospel artistes Charles and Olivia Charamba. “Wow, it is humbling indeed,” he said. “We grew up listening to them, being inspired by them and even today we are huge fans of their music. “To fit in those shoes will take great determination and commitment which we have seen the Charamba’s do over the years and we can only pray that God gives us the grace to reach the same level, while fulfilling our own call and mandate.” Cherayi said having a spouse with the same career as his was a great blessing, as their marriage was founded on God and the values of his word. “A three-coded rope is not easily broken,” he said. “Obviously love, respect, communication, submission, friendship, commitment, just to mention a few, play a very pivotal role and from this, our careers then are built on top of this. “The balance comes from knowing your spouse and potential and letting the other shine in their potential, not to be a stumbling block to them.” Cherayi said his wife was gifted in the knowledge of music and art. “On my part, I am a pastor, the spirituality of music and worship is my expertise,” he said. “She lets me shine from there, by doing so we complement each other very well, still respecting that we are husband and wife. Yes, we both manage ourselves personally, but we are under a management that oversees our public music business.” Cherayi said the couple wished to do some collaborations with artistes that inspired them. “Obviously, as a musician you have people that inspire you and given the opportunity you would definitely want to do something with them at some point in your career. “The unfortunate part is that there are too many, so you cannot pin point one. “Locally, for my wife, Sharon, it is Amai Charamba. She is a huge fan of her and for a very long time it has always been her dream. And for me it is Ministers Michael Mahendere and Takesure Zamar.”