The Herald MANCHESTER. — Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola has said no one can take away the club’s achievements even if the ongoing English Premier League investigation into their financial affairs was to see the reigning English football champions stripped of their titles. City have been charged with over 100 breaches of the English Premier League’s financial regulations from 2009 to 2018 and could face the prospect of losing the three English Premier League titles they won during the period and expulsion from the league. City issued a statement last Monday saying: “The club welcomes the review of this matter by an independent commission, to impartially consider the comprehensive body of irrefutable evidence that exists in support of its position.” Former Barcelona and Bayern Munich manager Guardiola said no matter what the outcome of the English Premier League investigation is, City’s trophy-winning run would always be worthy of recognition.  ‘’Those moments belong to us regardless of the sentence,’’ said the City boss in fighting mood. ‘’The goal from (Sergio) Aguero (2012), the slip from Steven Gerrard at Anfield (2014). Was that our fault? “At the end, always we leave thinking what other people think about us. Forget about it. Think what we have done. No-one can remove it,” Guardiola was quoted as saying by British media on Saturday. “The bad moments we leave, but it is not going to change. It was built from day one. We won a lot. We want to defend that position, until it is not possible. “The Premier League will decide but I know what we won, and the way we won it, with the effort we put in. “For something that happened in 2009 or 2010, I don’t how long ago it was, it is not going to change one second. They belong to us. Absolutely, they belong to us. Regardless of the sentence, they belong to us.”  Guardiola previously said he would leave City if he had been lied to during an investigation by European soccer governing body Uefa into the club’s financial affairs, but stressed he has no intention of standing down due to the current situation. — Reuters.