The Herald It is likely the biggest audience she will ever play to during her career. Yet Rihanna won’t receive a penny for her epic Super Bowl half-time extravaganza, where she revealed her second pregnancy with boyfriend ASAP Rocky on Sunday. The singer (34), has apparently declined the invitation to perform on several occasions before finally taking to the stage this year. It is thought that around 200 million will have watched the game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the Kansas City Chiefs at State Farm Stadium in Arizona. Previous stars to perform during the slot have included Beyonce, Jennifer Lopez, Shakira, Justin Timberlake and Coldplay. While you might expect that this kind of gig comes with a big pay cheque, performers never receive any money for their show. It is customary for the stars to perform for free due to the fact they are playing to the biggest audience of their career, which will impact their sales in a huge way. In 2017 following her set, Lady Gaga saw her album and single sales rocket by 1 000 percent. Meanwhile, JLo gained 2,3 million new followers across her social media platforms following her performance with Shakira in 2020. In 2022, a whole host of legends including Dr Dre, Snoop Dogg, Mary J. Blige, Kendrick Lamar, Eminem and 50 Cent performed together. After the show, Dr Dre saw his album sales increase by 183 per cent. During the performance, the nine-time Grammy Award winner confirmed she is pregnant with her second child after surprising fans with a baby bump during her highly anticipated comeback at the Super Bowl 57. Rihanna, who gave birth to her first child just nine months ago, sent social media into a frenzy as she took to the stage and rubbed her tummy in front of a global audience of millions. She shares her first child, who was born on May 13, 2022, with the rapper A$AP Rocky, who kept a low profile at the event. The two have kept their growing family under the radar, and so far neither musician has shared the name of their child.  – MailOnline.