The Herald Sports Reporter THE recent CAF A License refresher course held in Harare and conducted by Zambian instructor Honour Janza raises serious critical questions on how this course programme was planned under the cloud of the FIFA ban. What we heard from the ZIFA Technical Director, Wilson Mtekede, is some lukewarm defence of encouraging the local coaches to align their qualifications with current trends of top level coach education curriculum that gives them another three-year life span to work as CAF A License holders. All football related activities under CAF and FIFA are banned in Zimbabwe, suddenly we are being told that ‘’learning is not banned’’, hence the invitation of Jansa whose presence raises suspicions about the body he represents and his clearance from either CAF or FIFA to preside legitimately on the certification of this refresher course. Local Premiership giants Dynamos, other clubs and various academies experienced the harsh realities of the ban as they failed to participate in various pre-season tournaments that were lined up in different cities in Southern Africa, including Lilongwe where the Malawi Football Association amplified the FIFA ban by refusing to allow the Boys in Blue to take part in a pre-season tournament in the country. Is CAF behind the certification of this coaching course programme? If not, is ZIFA responsible for the certification process? The admission by the ZIFA Technical Director that all CAF A License holders were using expired documents for almost three years brings the furore over Joey Antipas’s lack of having the CAF A license into perspective. ‘’Mafero’’ was forced out of the dugout by the same administration that sees it ‘’fit’’ to hire Janza whose presence here is highly suspicious. Has CAF sanctioned this coaching course programme on the basis that, ‘’ZIFA is not banned from learning”. Are we witnessing another subversion of the CAF/FIFA ban in broad daylight under the guise of ‘’learning is not banned’’, or it is a subtle way of maintaining the status quo for the CAF A License holders to entrench their grip on local football at the expense of the lesser qualified CAF B coaches? If a way ‘’was found to legitimise’’ the CAF A License holders after a three-year expiry, why has the same national association failed dismally to empower the CAF B license holders to upgrade their skills by sitting for the CAF A coaching course? On one hand, a band of coaches who seem to be in good favour with the system are being served with ‘’dignity’’, whilst the other aspiring coaches are being pushed out of their jobs with vengeance. Is this another cash cow tryst meant to oil the coffers of a financially marooned association?