The Herald Tadious Manyepo Sports Reporter ATHLETIC Bilbao’s Ghana star Inak Williams has shared some success secrets with fellow Africans playing in the Spanish La Liga football, including Warriors forward Tino Kadewere. The latter has had an enduring spell dogged by injuries since his loan move to RDC Mallorca from French Ligue 1 outfit Olympique Lyon at the beginning of the current European football season. Kadewere is the first Zimbabwean to play in the prestigious league although he has hardly featured in Javier Aguirre side, thanks to his injury proneness. In contrast, Williams has made world headlines after setting an eye dropping La Liga appearances record with a hefty 251 consecutive games under his belt. The 28-year-old has been voted the La Liga African MVP of the first half of the season by a panel of African journalists with The Herald Sport part of the selectors. And in a subsequent virtual press conference, the Bilbao-born striker issued some advice to African players plying their trade in the European country, including Kadewere. The Zimbabwean found himself out of favour at Lyon before securing a loan switch to Mallorca at the beginning of this season. However, he suffered a nasty injury that kept him out of action for about three months. Kadewere is now back to full fitness and is looking forward to a fruitful second half of the season. “La Liga is a top, top league with incredible quality. Firstly, (African) players, including Kadewere, should pitch up, they should be concise and try to really fit in their respective teams. “They should be flexible enough to suit their teams’ type of play. And above everything, they should be more physical and work as hard as they can,” said Williams. “The password to success in this quality league is flexibility. Work hard and fit into a certain team’s philosophy and type of play. This is highly achievable if one puts in the work. “There are quality African players in the La Liga. They are physically strong and technically gifted. Every team in the La Liga, which has an African player in their fold, tends to do well in the league.” Williams said African football is growing in leaps and bounds but there is a need to do more in terms of grassroots development. “I think as Africans, we can produce more and more quality players in the continent with the right attitude and approach. “We should open academies, especially in schools. “There is raw talent in schools, towns and villages which can be polished. Grassroots development is the key to unlock Africa’s potential. Our coaching approach to the kids should also be more scientific. We should adopt modern coaching techniques from the base going upwards. That way, we can develop faster.” Williams said besides being lucky with injuries in his career, his secret to maintaining good form has been discipline. “I have been very lucky with injuries in my career. Before I got injured, I never thought of my record. “I realised it was coming to an end only when I suffered the injury. I know the record will be difficult to beat. “But it takes dedication and discipline in the execution of duty for one to play every match the team engages in,” said Williams. “I am very grateful to everyone who has been around for me. I am looking forward to continuing doing a lot for the team.” Kadewere will be looking forward to winning the African MVP for the second half of the La Liga season where he will square up against 31 other players from the continent in this league. The Spanish La Liga is spreading its wings in Africa with the Real Betis Academy Zimbabwe largely seen as one of the key springs to promoting the league in the continent.