The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Golf Association will this season introduce a new tournament — the Munhumutapa Amateur Golf Championship — to be held this year at Wingate Park and Golf Club. The tournament, which will carry the order of merit and points that allows players to make it into the national team, will come as the second tournament of the season. ZGA president, Martin Chikwana, said he is happy that they have a new tournament on their calendar of events and are looking forward to have a good response from the players. The Munhumutapa Amateur Golf Championship will come in as a replacement for the Julius Robinson Trophy that has been temporarily suspended. “We are going to hold the first edition of the Munhumutapa Golf Championship at Wingate Park and Golf Club this month. The tournament will be part of our national events that carries national order of merit points. “The tournament is open to all amateur golfers and we are glad that we will have several tournaments throughout the 2023 season. The players will get some points and we are looking forward to have a good turnout at the tournament. The Munhhumutapa Amateur Championship will be the second tournament after we successfully hosted the Dugmore Championship in Bulawayo,” said Chikwana. The ZGA, who are moving with the times, have since incorporated some female golfers so that they can be ranked on the national order of merit standings. Zimbabwe has become one of the few African countries who have their female golfers on the national rankings and they will accumulate the points through national tournaments like the Munhumutamba Amateur Championship. Meanwhile, the ZGA have selected a four-member team that is taking part in several amateur events which began yesterday in South Africa. The quintet of Tariro November, Michael Wallace, Mathew Bradford and Panashe Mukumba teed off in their first tournament — the Africa Amateur Championship — at Leopard Creek Country Club yesterday. After the three-day Africa Amateur Championship whose curtain comes down tomorrow, they will move to Edgecombe Country Club for the South Africa Strokeplay Championship from February 13-16. Zimbabwe’s top amateurs will round off their South Africa tour with the South Africa Amateur Championships at the Edgecombe from February 21-24. The South African tournaments will give the players some points in the World Amateur Golf Rankings.