The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter WITH the Premier Netball League season expected to roar into life soon, defending champions Platinum Queens coach Simbarashe Mlambo is pleased with the way their pre-season preparations are going. The Zvishavane-based club has been dominant in the PNL which was launched in 2021. They have won the league title twice in a row. The inaugural season saw the league putting up a crash programme after its launch and netball was emerging from a Covid-19-induced break. Platinum Queens were up to the task, winning the pre-season tournament and the championship title in the first year of the league. They defended both the pre-season and league titles. With the 2023 programme expected to take off soon, the defending champions have been busy with their pre-season preparations.  Mlambo said they have made good progress for the upcoming season. “So generally we have been trying to get back to where we were before but we have got one or two things that we want to really focus on. “We have been trying to just merge some new talent that we have and also trying to change one or two mindsets. So generally nothing has changed much and the focus is to just make sure that the girls are fit mentally and physically, which has been going on very well and I am not complaining. “The girls are so much geared, they are motivated and they want to get back on court and enjoy themselves, no pressure really. “But when you are defending champions, two years in a row, there is a time that you really begin to feel the pressure and you just want to show how much you are consistent. But at the same time also not to put the players under any pressure. “But really we are making good progress, and good strides in maintaining the shape of the team,” said Mlambo. The club has roped in some young talent in Esimeld Sibanda (centre/wing attack), Nyarai Muzvondiwa (wing defence/goal defence), Sharon Mugwara (goal shooter/goal attack) and Selina Kuriremu (centre/wing attack). “I have got a few new players. Just generally young players from as young as 2002 to 2006 if I am not mistaken. So they are new talent. “They are also local based, which is good for our community. We just said to ourselves, for the sake of the club and its continuity, let’s just rope in a few new players so that we merge them right now and we coach them. “We still have time and they can still mature later on and who knows where we will get to with them.” The club lost three of their seasoned players – goal shooter Lynette Tanhira, who joined ZDF Queens while goalkeeper Sharleen Makusha and Hamu Govere are now with Glow Petroleum in the Rainbow Netball League. “Sharleen and Hamu were very seasoned players. Lynette as well and obviously with the experience that they had with the national team and playing big games, we will miss them greatly. They contributed so much to the development of the club and the team as a whole. “But we just believe that we are not down yet… come rain or thunder we are very much geared and our attitude is better and we will just make it,” said Mlambo. With the pre-season tournament due to take place on February 18 at the Chitungwiza Aquatic Centre, Mlambo is confident of the groundwork they have covered. “It looks like it’s going to be bigger and better this time around. So we are ready. We have one or two loose screws that we want to tighten. But we are ready and we will just go out there and be on the court and enjoy ourselves. “I guess it comes from how highly motivated we are and the expectations of our fans and our community and especially the lovely town of Zvishavane,” Mlambo said.