The Herald ROME. — Jose Mourinho has “never been a great coach.” And he is now overseeing “disaster after disaster” at current Italian Serie A football club Roma. That’s according to Antonio Cassano, who reckons the Special One has pulled the wool over people’s eyes for years. Mourinho (60) took charge of Roma in July 2021 and delivered their first-ever continental title last year by winning the Europa Conference League. The Italian Serie A giants currently sit third in the table after a 2-1 win over Empoli. But it hasn’t all been plain sailing for Mourinho, who has come under fire for signing older players like ex-Chelsea and Man Utd midfielder Nemanja Matic. The tactician has also fallen out with key men including Rick Karsdorp and Nicolo Zaniolo, with the latter now set to join Galatasaray. And Roma saw their Coppa Italia run come to a shuddering end with a 2-1 home defeat in the quarters to lowly Cremonese. The exit came days after a 2-1 loss at runaway league leaders Napoli. And those consecutive defeats spurred Cassano into action, with the ex-Roma, Real Madrid and Italy forward holding little back when talking about Mourinho’s past and present endeavours in the dugout. Cassano told BoboTV: “Mourinho has never been a great coach, he just knew how to play the media and was a great communicator. “He is good at dealing with strong players, not ones who aren’t very good. It’s too easy to just be friendly with great players. “It’s just a disaster upon a disaster at Roma, he got them to spend money on Nemanja Matic and Rui Patricio, they were his decisions. “The other day, that performance made me want to vomit. He doesn’t know how to set out a team. Even with your second-string squad, you need to beat Cremonese. “It was Mourinho’s disaster with Karsdorp, putting him in the stocks, disintegrating and insulting him in front of everyone. Now Karsdorp is coming back, who knows why? “So that was one mess. As for Zaniolo, he gets to talk about that and not why his Roma team plays like c**p. It’s been a year-and-a-half that this Roma side hasn’t played proper football.” — The Sun