The Herald Ellina Mhlanga-Senior Sports Reporter TENNIS coach Gwinyai Tongoona has described Zimbabwe’s defeat by Uruguay in the World Group II Play-offs as a difficult loss to take. It was a close contest between the two countries that had to be decided on the last match of the tie at Harare Sports Club on Monday. Tongoona assisted the team during their final preparations last week and worked more with the junior side that was part of the camp. “That was a very difficult loss to take I think for Courtney (Lock) obviously because he was playing but also for the team. At some stage we thought that he was going to pull through but as sport goes, things turn, then you get a heartbreak like that,” said Tongoona after the decisive match between Courtney Lock and Ignacio Carou. The Zimbabwe team was made up of the Lock brothers — Courtney and Benjamin — Mehluli Sibanda and upcoming player Benedict Badza. They were led by captain Takanyi Garanganga. However, the Lock brothers had to carry the team during this tie as the number two player Sibanda was ruled out because of an injury. Courtney Lock, who usually teams up with Benjamin for the doubles, had to replace Sibanda, playing the singles as well as the doubles. Tongoona said getting more players to compete at a higher level such as the ATP Challenger Tour is key for Zimbabwe to be playing in Group II and Group I. “Look, obviously we have the team that we have now and then we also had the juniors that were with the team this week, that have gone to play in Egypt at the African Junior Championships. “So it’s a matter of getting more players, who are playing in the pros, to be able to compete with these teams. “So if we don’t have players playing Futures and Challengers and ATPs, it’s always going to be tough. So it’s a matter of getting the younger players that we have, probably including Mehluli as he is still, 22, or 23, to also play at that level for us to be playing Group II, Group I Davis Cup. “We do have players in college but obviously they are also doing studies, they are playing for their college teams, so they are not always available for Davis Cup. “It’s a matter of if they finish college, are they going to go on tour? If they are not going on tour then unfortunately we lose those,” said Tongoona. Following the defeat, Zimbabwe are set to compete in the Africa Group III where they have to fight for promotion back into the World Group II. Benjamin Lock, who is the country’s number one player, said they need to remain confident they will come back strong. “I had a good conversation with Takanyi last night (Sunday) we spoke about the plan, win or lose for the next couple of months and what we needed to do to prepare well. “And I think we have a good pathway that we have discussed and obviously there is a lot more to do than just discussing. But we have really looked at trying to grow the team and all of us to be 100 percent fit and ready to go. “Obviously, this weekend we suffered an injury with Mehluli and it was very difficult. But that’s the advantage of having a good team and strong team like ours. And going back to Group III it’s nothing we haven’t done before. We lost to El Salvador . . . and we went back down to Group III, we won that one we came out and we almost won this one. “So we will be back and I just think that we have to have good preparation and be confident that we will be back soon,” said Benjamin Lock.