The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter REIGNING Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Rookie of the Year, Jayden Barake, could finally realise his dream of turning out for the Dynamos senior team should his parent club WhaWha agree to release him to the Glamour Boys. The 19-year-old, who is yet another product of the Dynamos juniors under Lloyd “Mablanyo” Chigowe, thought he would graduate into the senior side last year. But former Dynamos coach Tonderai Ndiraya was reluctant to draft him into his squad. Instead Ndiraya, who is now with Simba Bhora, opted for Bill Antonio, Stephen Chatikobo, Luke Musukiri and Cluvert Tshuma for the Under-20 slots. Barake was left a disappointed lot but found a new home at Whawha where he signed a three-year contract which will expire in December 2024. He quickly established himself as one of the best players in the league after scoring nine goals last season and easily snatched the Rookie of the Year medal. New Dynamos coach Herbert “Jompano”Maruwa, who was at Black Rhinos last year, was charmed by the lanky forward whom he invited as soon as he was appointed to the biggest coaching job in the Premiership. Barake is training with Dynamos with the blessings of WhaWha while negotiations are going on. Dynamos chairman, Moses Maunganidze, yesterday said the talks are at an advanced stage. “The coach, Herbert Maruwa, said he wanted the player and as the executive we had to act. Initially, it was said by someone, who claimed to be his manager, that he was a free agent but after doing our background checks, we then realised that he is still a WhaWha player,” said Maunganidze. “Then we contacted WhaWha who then allowed him to train with us while we continue with negotiations. We have agreed on several things and we are now looking at the conditions. “We want to have him permanently but we cannot rule out a loan move for him as things stand. As Dynamos, we thrive to give the coach the resources they would have asked for and we will have to make sure we secure Barake whether on loan or permanently.” Barake said he is more than happy to have finally returned to a club which he joined when he was barely 12. “Dynamos is my home and I am happy to be here. I know the deal has not yet been completed but I am sure it will be completed soon. “I grew up in the Dynamos system and I know the philosophy very well. I am ready to give everything for the cause. I know I could have played for the team last season but maybe the time wasn’t ripe. WhaWha gave me everything and my status grew quickly and here I am,” said Barake. “I am happy to be at the Glamour Boys where everything is pointing north. I hope to impress and help Dynamos achieve their targets…”  Just like Barake, Tendaiishe Magwaza is one of the players who had been discarded by Ndiraya last season and he spent a year on loan at WhaWha. The utility player was one of the key elements in Luke Petros’ team last season. He notched five assists and Maruwa hasn’t made it a secret that Magwaza will be one of his main men this coming season. The 21-year-old, who can play both defence and midfield, said he is happy to be back at Dynamos. “The loan move to WhaWha last season helped me a lot in terms of regaining my lost confidence. “I got some significant game-time which helped perfect my art,” said Magwaza. “I am happy to be back at Dynamos and I am looking forward to a fruitful 2023 season.”