The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga-Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Under-20 rugby team coach Shaun De Souza has announced a 40-member team that will take part in the Barthes Trophy in Kenya later this year. The Young Sables technical team have included several foreign-based players like United Kingdom-based Tamuka Kambani, Welton Charumbira, Jerome Sagomba, Brendan Marume, Ryan Mackenzie, Tawanda Matipano, Martin Hakunavanhu, Farai Madzima and Tanaka Ndoro. The Young Sables technical team have cast their net wide as they have also incorporated some players based in Ireland, South Africa and Canada. Canada-based former St George’s head boy Mwaita Makanza, who is now a student at Memorial University of Newfoundland, will join several players whom he played with at the Craven Week in 2019. “Our 2023 season has started and we are happy the Under-20 league is running. We are hopeful to have an international friendly match against Botswana as part of our preparations. “We still have three weeks to go before the league’s curtain comes down and we have an opportunity to continue assessing some players. We are looking forward to the Nedbank Challenge Cup and hopefully we will have a strong side. The Paramount Garments League is in Week Four and we are looking forward to defend our title in the Barthes Trophy in April. “We are also looking for opportunities to play in the Junior World Trophy in July,” said De Souza. Squad Forwards: Happias Zhou, Tadiwanashe Marumisa, Farai Madzima, Ragers Taengwa, Takunda Mudzingwa, Munashe Ndhlela, Giordano Sarpo, Tamuka Kambani, Tawananyasha Bwanya, Shingirai Manyara, Tashinga Makiwa, Kelvin Kaseke, Godfrey Zvinavashe, Tafadzwa Gwaza, Kudakwashe Gotora, Ryan Mackenzie, Joseph Banning, Tinotenda Matimbira, Tendai Maruma, Prince Chinyadura, Muzuva Gutu, Vincent Chimwendo, Allan Mawunga, Tanaka Goto, Darryl Mwenso, Takudzwa Zvomuya, Bryan Chiang, Martine Hakunavanhu, Gerry Zisengwe, Tadiwa Chimwada, Nqobile Manyara, Gealan Jaricha, Gamalliel Munembe, Stanley Muranganwa, Tadiwa Mazani, Jackson Munyaka, Huntley Materson, Leo Mutendi, Hagler Muchenji, Tanaka Ndoro, Tadiwa Gwaraba, Mwaita Makanza, Takudzwa Kamucheta, Panashe Taderera. Backs: Panashe Zuze, Brendan Marume, Alex Nyamunda, Kudakwashe Nyamushaya, Tadiwanashe Unganai, Edward Sigauke, Panashe Mugorogodi, Simbarashe Kanyangarara, Tadiwa Ngirazi, Cole Musanigwa, Damien Moyo, Nigel Siabwanda, Tawanda Matipano, Oliver Masara, Munotida Mutamirofa, Dereck Karuma, Tanaka Chinyanga, Dion Khumalo, Benoni Nhekairo, Shadrick Mandaza, Welton Charumbira, Kholwani Moyo, Jerome Sagomba, Kelton Kaseke, Vuyani Ncube, Brendon Jameson, Taona Mapani, Mbekezeli Siziba, Callon Matsikira.