The Herald Senior Court Reporter TWO men who stole US$20 000 from the owner of an upmarket bar in Harare and bought themselves cars and other luxuries, are expected to be sentenced today at the Harare Magistrates Court. Kuzivakwashe Ngwasha and Bonface Muzheki admitted to stealing the money from Mr Lance Guy Nettleton when they appeared before magistrate Mrs Evelyn Mashavakure. They are both charged with unlawful entry under aggravating circumstances and money laundering. Ngwasha was employed as a general hand, while Muzheki was a security guard at Q Bar located along Fife Avenue in Harare. The State led by Mr Anesu Chirenje alleged that sometime in January at around 9am, Mr Nettleton, who runs Q-Bar, noticed that some water had entered into his safe where he was keeping US$20 000. He then allegedly removed the money from the safe and spread it on the floor in his house to dry. Ngwasha, who was doing his routine duties, peeped into Mr Nettleton’s house through the window and discovered that there was cash scattered on the floor. He then allegedly called Muzheki and planned to steal from their employer. Ngwasha allegedly took keys to Mr Nettleton’s house, which were hidden outside under the geyser and unlocked the door. He then left Muzheki monitoring their employer’s movements within the yard whilst he collected the US$20 000. Ngwasha allegedly locked the door and returned the keys under the geyser. He allegedly gave Muzheki US$1 350 as his share. Ngwasha then went on to buy a Toyota Corolla Bubble (AEY 0029) for US$4 700, a Toyota Runx (AEQ 6186) for US$4 000, two radio sound systems and eight car mag wheels for two cars. He also used the money to purchase an Iphone 11 Pro Max, a Techno Spark, Samsung A71, Itel A56 and Itel 2160 cellphones. It is said that Muzheki went on to buy a Polo Golf VW (AEH 0387) for US$1 200. Out of the stolen money, US$12 850 was recovered. Ngwasha and Muzhaki are also separately appearing together with Tendai Nation Karima on allegations of stealing US$17 500 on January 31 that had been left in an empty box of Russian beer bottles by Mr Nettleton. Ngwasha planned to steal the money and entered into Mr Nettleton’s house through the roof after breaking some asbestos sheets. He left Muzhaki monitoring the movements of their employer and updating him over the phone. It is said that the duo engaged the services of Karima to drive Ngwasha home using a Toyota Runx he had bought using the previously stolen money. The court heard that whilst Ngwasha was still inside the house, a security alarm was triggered, prompting Muzhaki to call him to run to safety. Ngwasha took an empty Russian Beer box containing US$17 500 and then went out of the house. He then allegedly scaled over the electric fence, but was cut by the razor wire in the process. Muzhaki went on to tell his employer about the alarm system since he was in a bar where there was noise, purporting as if he was not aware of what was happening. Mr Nettleton then noticed that his money had been stolen. It is said that Ngwasha was then intercepted by Isaac Haruzivi and Panashe Tsuro of No. 56 Beit Court, Five Avenue, but he escaped, leaving behind the empty beer box containing the money. A report was made, leading to Ngwasha and Muzhaki’s arrest.