The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter THE history of Test matches between Zimbabwe and West Indies can date back to the year 2000 when the Chevrons toured the Caribbean Islands for a two-match series under the captaincy of the legendary Andy Flower. The Carribean side were on the back foot straightaway in the first match of the tour, with Heath Streak contributing 4/45 to reduce them to 187. Flower’s unbeaten 113 meant Zimbabwe gained a 49-run lead after posting 236 runs in their first innings. Things soon got worse for the West Indies when the visitors’ bowlers ran through their batting line-up and left them on the brink of a surprise defeat. Streak was again in full flow with figures of 5/27, and Zimbabwe had a very good chance of causing an upset when the Windies capitulated to 147 runs in their second innings, to set the visitors a target of 99 runs to win. However, the Windies pace battery that had the likes of Curtly Ambrose and Courtney Walsh were simply too hot to handle for Zimbabwe as they were dismissed for just 63 runs, with Franklyn Rose bagging 4/19. The Windies eventually won the match by 35 runs. On reflection, this was a big chance missed by the Chevrons. Their target of 99 runs remains the second-lowest target successfully defended in Test cricket history. And 23 years later, 10 Test matches have been played between the two nations and Zimbabwe have never again gotten this close to beating their rivals in the Test arena. In fact, the Chevrons are still waiting for their day as they are yet to win a Test match against the Windies. In total, 10 Test matches have been played between them, with the Windies winning seven while three ended in draws. In five Test series, the head-to-head stands at 5-0 in favour of the West Indies. The last Test series between the two nations was played at Queens Sports Club in October 2017. The West Indies clinched the two-match series 1-0, having won the first game by 117 runs while the second match ended in a draw. Craig Ervine is the only survivor from the Zimbabwe side that last played against the Calypso Kings back then while at least six players from the West Indies squad, including captain Kraigg Brathwaite, Jermaine Blackwood, Roston Chase, Shannon Gabriel, Kemar Roach and Jason Holder, have returned for the upcoming series. Zimbabwe have shown massive improvement in the last seven months since the return of Dave Houghton as head coach. This is the first time that the Chevrons play the five-day game under his charge. Zimbabwe, however, are missing at least five key players because of various reasons. They have named about seven uncapped players at Test level and this, rather been seen as a handicap, has been perceived by optimists as a big chance for the new players in the set up to raise their hands up. Zimbabwe Test Squad: Craig Ervine (captain), Gary Ballance, Chamunorwa Chibhabha, Tanaka Chivanga, Bradley Evans, Joylord Gumbie, Innocent Kaia, Tanunurwa Makoni, Wellington Masakadza, Kudzai Maunze, Brandon Mavuta, Richard Ngarava, Victor Nyauchi, Milton Shumba, Donald Tiripano, Tafadzwa Tsiga. West Indies Test Squad: Kraigg Brathwaite (captain), Jermaine Blackwood, Nkrumah Bonner, Tagenarine Chanderpaul, Roston Chase, Joshua Da Silva, Shannon Gabriel, Kemar Roach, Jason Holder, Alzarri Joseph, Kyle Mayers, Raymon Reifer, Devon Thomas, Jomel Warrican, Gudakesh Motie