The Herald Joseph Madzimure-Senior Reporter THE nation should build on the culture of peace prevailing in the country under the Second Republic and collectively shun all acts of violence, Zanu PF political commissar Cde Mike Bimha has said. Reacting to disturbing acts of violence by suspected CCC hoodlums in Gokwe-Nembudziya at Mutora Growth Point, Cde Bimha said the ruling party hoped perpetrators were expeditiously brought to book. On Sunday, Zanu PF supporters were left for dead after being attacked by alleged CCC activists and they had to be ferried to Gokwe North District Hospital for medical attention. Those who were injured were Zanu PF district secretary for production Cde Shylet Hatina and District chairperson Temba Motsi. Cde Bimha said it was barbaric for a political party intending to participate in this year’s elections, to engage in any form of violence. He urged Zanu PF supporters in the province to remain peaceful and calm to enable the Zimbabwe Republic Police to continue with its constitutional duties. “The party is currently busy encouraging its membership to register as voters and also assisting those who don’t have the necessary documents to acquire them to enable them to register to vote,” he said. “So, we were disturbed by the incidents of violence in Gokwe while our members were peacefully mobilising people to register to vote.” Zanu PF is targeting to mobilise five million votes for the President and the party to ensure a resounding victory in the coming elections. President Mnangagwa is on record calling for peace to prevail both during the campaigning and election period. “It is very unfortunate that at this point in time when we are busy preparing for elections you find that there are people who are prone to violence, who are then going around disturbing the peace that has been prevailing before,” said Cde Bimha. “The President has said that we should condemn any form of violence, that violence from any quarter is not tolerated. It doesn’t augur well for the country, for our image, to witness any incidents of violence when we are going through the elections. “We would want all parties to have that freedom to campaign as they wish, to group as they wish and to carry out their daily activities in a peaceful manner. This is very disturbing and I hope the responsible authorities will really take action.”