The Herald LONDON. — Angry Manchester United fans on Thursday night said the club should boot out Mason Greenwood — despite all criminal charges against him being dropped. Ian Stirling, a board member of the Red Devils’ fan-run  Supporters’ Trust, tweeted: “No way should he play for us again.” Greenwood said he was “relieved” on Thursday after all criminal charges against him — including attempted rape — were dropped by prosecutors. The Manchester United star was informed that the Crown Prosecution Service had also withdrawn charges of actual bodily harm and coercive or controlling behaviour.  The move came after 12 witnesses — including the woman at the centre of the allegations — refused to co-operate. Striker Greenwood (21) said: “I am relieved that this matter is over and I would like to thank my family, loved ones and friends for their support.” But United bosses announced the club is now conducting its own probe into his behaviour surrounding the claims — which surfaced online in January 2022. Greenwood — who the club suspended following his arrest — will be unable to train or play for the Red Devils for the duration.  A spokesman said: “The club will now conduct its own process before determining next steps. “We will not make any further comment until that process is complete.” On Thursday night dozens of United fans urged the club to get rid of Greenwood — on a £100 000-a-week contract. Others said they should stick by him as he had not been convicted of any crime. He had been arrested in January 2022 after harrowing images were posted on social media, along with video and audio footage, suggesting he had been physically abusive towards a woman. He was charged last October and had been due to stand trial this November. The charges came despite the alleged victim telling cops in April 2022 she no longer wanted him prosecuted and would not give evidence  in court. Police continued the case as they regarded her as a “vulnerable victim”. Last Friday The Sun told the CPS that we understood it was struggling to build a case.  It confirmed our information at 2pm on Thursday, when the end of proceedings was announced. A CPS spokesman said: “A combination of the withdrawal of key witnesses and new material that came to light meant there was no longer a realistic prospect of conviction. “We have explained our decision to all parties. “We would always encourage any potential victims to come forward and report to police and we will prosecute wherever our legal test is met.” Greenwood has made 129 United appearances, scoring 35 goals and has one England cap. He last played on January 22 last year against West Ham. Prior to his arrest, he was valued at around £50million and regarded as one of European football’s hottest young talents.