The Herald Eddie Chikamhi-Senior Sports Reporter THE revamped Dynamos executive committee is set to confront head on the rot entrenched by the previous executive which could have resulted in potential losses for the giants. The Glamour Boys are currently beset with allegations raised against some former members of the executive that were recently sacked by the DeMbare board in a “restructuring” exercise that is “in line with the (club’s) Strategic Plan 2023-25”. Some influential members of the previous executive are said to have captured the club’s administration and the cabal apparently fleeced DeMbare’s coffers. Among a host of misdemeanors, the rogue members are accused of abusing funds meant for signing-on fees, misuse of the club’s finances and corruption. An audit is likely to be called to ascertain the extent of the prejudice Dynamos could have suffered at their hands. Sources claim that underhand dealings were conducted by some of the executive members behind the backs of the rest of the group and unauthorised expenditures were made, to the detriment of the club. A meeting of the new executive members is likely to discuss the ills and forge a way forward. “Allegations against the former executive committee members form part of the basis of this meeting,” said the sources. “There is likely to be an audit to look into the club’s finances and to establish who did some of the questionable transactions, who approved the expenditures and did the money reach the intended recipients? “It’s surprising some players still claim that they are owed signing-on fees by Dynamos from last year and even to the period when Remington Gold was still sponsoring the team.” Our sister paper, The H-Metro recently revealed that there was an obscure US$10 000 gold deal which went wrong and that thousands in management allowances were siphoned from the Dynamos coffers among a host of questionable financial transactions. The gold deal was kept a secret, as was the details of the contract and export of Bill Antonio to Belgium. Dynamos never benefited from the sale of the player despite their role in preparing him for topflight football. “The gold buying deal was a flop and the money was never recovered. If the money was paid in 2021 and then the gold was never delivered, at least the money should be returned. “They were many deals that benefited individuals. The club got nothing from the export of Bill Antonio to Belgium yet it was Dynamos that gave him all the limelight. There is a need to probe the nature of Antonio’s deal further and possibly try to push with FIFA for the club to get what is due to it,” said the sources. The DeMbare management had several brushes with players over winning bonuses last season. Some of the players left after failing to agree signing-on fees with the club. Dynamos recently axed treasurer, Moses Chikwaviro, Moses Madzinga who was in charge of development and spokesperson Tinashe Farawo, who was also in charge of Marketing and Communications, in a restructuring of the executive committee. Former chairman Isaiah Mupfurutsa was the first to be kicked out. No reasons were given for their dismissals. However, Dynamos’ current chairman Moses Maunganidze dismissed the allegations against his former colleagues. “As much as we are not mandated to speak about decisions because we are also board appointees, those issues that have been raised about financial irregularities to me are far-fetched. “All we know is that there was a reshuffle done by the board and as the chairman I am not privy to the reasons behind the board decision. “What I can say is that the executive that has been put in place has already hit the ground running and that our pre-season preparations are in full swing. Everything is going on well and I am sure we will be ready to compete by the time the season starts,” said Maunganidze. The new Dynamos executive now comprises Maunganidze as chairman and incoming vice-chairman Vincent Chawonza. Beadle Gwasira is the new Dynamos treasurer, with Webster Marechera retaining the secretary general’s post while Clemence Chimbare is the new committee member.