The Herald LONDON. — Martin Odegaard has revealed how Mikel Arteta convinced him to be part of Arsenal’s revolution. The 24-year-old, who was made Arsenal’s permanent captain last summer, has played a key role in the Gunners’ success since his arrival from Real Madrid. Odegaard initially joined on a loan deal in January 2021 before Arsenal made the move permanent for £30m plus bonuses the following summer. And the Norway international has made it clear that Arteta’s clear plan for Arsenal’s progression played a key role in his decision to make the move to the English Premier League. ‘’I spoke to Mikel Arteta on a Zoom call and he told me all about the project,’’ Odegaard wrote in The Players’ Tribune. ‘’At the time, Arsenal were not doing well. They were way down like 15th in the table, but that meeting… Honestly, I challenge anyone to come away from a meeting with Arteta and not believe everything he tells you. ‘’He is next level. It’s hard to explain. He’s passionate, he’s intense and sometimes, yeah, he’s a bit crazy… but when he speaks, you understand that whatever he says will happen, will happen. ‘’He told me his plan, everything he was building towards. He knew exactly what needed to change at the club. ‘’He told me all about these amazing young players in the squad – Saka, Martinelli, Smith Rowe, etc etc. He told me how he wanted me to fit in and how I was going to improve. ‘’I got this strong feeling that he was onto something really special.’’ Arsenal currently five points clear of Manchester City at the top of the English Premier League and Odegaard is adamant that the Gunners can win the title this season. ‘’We’re in the title race now, but there’s a long way to go and, trust me, no one is thinking about May yet,’’ Odegaard wrote. ‘’It’s a cliché but we are taking it game by game, training session by training session. One piece at a time. ‘’I will say this, though, if there’s anyone left who still doesn’t fully believe in this team, take it from me: there are no limits on what we can achieve. No one can tell me otherwise.” Despite not wanting to get carried away, Odegaard believes Arsenal have proved themselves this season as he plans to remain in north London for years to come. ‘’I’m so proud to be captain of this club and I feel like I’m going to be here a long time.’’ Meanwhile, Odegaard has revealed details of his emotional reunion with Arsene Wenger, during which the Arsenal legend revealed he was concerned that a player he tried to sign as a teenager was in danger of wasting his talent. The current Gunners’ skipper had the chance to join the north London club as a teenager but spurned the opportunity in favour of signing for Real Madrid. ‘’I was actually close to choosing Arsenal. When we went there, I got to train at London Colney,’’ he told Players Tribune. ‘’I met Arsene Wenger. He took me and Dad out for dinner. That was cool, but strange too. It’s Arsene Wenger, you know? He’s this legend I grew up watching on TV, and now I’m sitting across from him eating steak. ‘’I was so nervous I was just sitting there thinking, Is he analysing me right now? Is he going to judge me if I eat the fries? Maybe I should just leave them. Hahaha!’’ — Metro.