The Herald Brandon Moyo, in BULAWAYO WEST Indies openers, Kraigg Brathwaite as well as Tagenarine Chanderpaul notched up hundreds against an ineffective Zimbabwean bowling attack as the visitors continued their dominance with the bat on day two of the rain-affected Test cricket match at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo. The visitors finished on 221 runs for no loss in 89 overs. Only 38 overs were played yesterday due to the rain delays. Because of a wet outfield, play started after tea of the second day with the Windies resuming on 112/0 in 51 overs. The two opening batsmen were on 55 runs after rain had caused early stumps on the opening day. Brathwaite and Chanderpaul continued from where they had left off as they converted their fifties from the first day to centuries in the second. The Windies skipper, Brathwaite, finished on 116 runs from 246 deliveries and his opening partner had 101 off 291 balls in what was a fine display of pure Test cricket by the two openers. Brathwaite scored his 12th Test ton while Chanderpaul notched up his maiden red ball hundred in his third match. It was the first time that West Indies openers have both scored centuries in the same innings. The pair’s 221 runs partnership also made the highest partnership for the West Indies in Test cricket against Zimbabwe for any wicket. After bowling for one day and a half without taking any wickets, Zimbabwe’s left arm spinner Wellington Masakadza, who bowled 16 overs and conceded 30 runs with six maidens, was still confident that the Chevrons will manage to notch up some scalps as they go into day three which usually has something for bowlers. “It’s obviously tough to bowl first but I think as the match progresses there definitely may be something and we hope tomorrow (today) we come out and get something out of it (wicket),” said Masakadza in the post day press conference. Masakadza agreed with the bowling coach, Steve Kirby, that they have bowled well in the two days but have been unlucky not to have picked up wickets. He said they will keep going and not throw in the towel. Zimbabwe will be hoping to get the much needed wicket and break the partnership that seems to have settled really well in the middle. A sunny day is projected today and promises to have a full day’s play without any interruptions.