The Herald Brandon Moyo in BULAWAYO LEG SPINNER Brandon Mavuta marked his return to Test cricket with a maiden five-wicket haul while Innocent Kaia scored an unbeaten half ton on debut as Zimbabwe put up a fight with bat and ball on day three of the Test match against a dominant West Indies at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo. The Zimbabwean bowlers, who had toiled without success in the first two days that were interrupted by rain, eventually got the breakthrough yesterday before West Indies declared their first innings on 447/6. The visiting batsmen dominated the game, with their opening batters breaking records following the 336-run partnership between captain Kraigg Brathwaite and Tagenarine Chanderpaul who scored an unbeaten double century on debut. In response, Zimbabwe ended the day on 114-3 in 41. 4 overs, having lost the wickets of Tanunurwa Makoni (33), Chamunorwa Chibhabha (9) and Craig Ervine (13). The home side trail by 333 runs with seven wickets in hand, going into day four of the series Test. Brathwaite and Chanderpaul’s 336-run partnership became the highest opening stand in Test cricket for the Caribbean side. Before that, the best opening stand belonged to Gordon Greenidge and Desmond Haynes who combined for 298 runs against England back in 1990. The skipper went on to fall 18 runs short of a double ton on 182 runs while his partner Chanderpaul remained undefeated on 207 runs. West Indies declared their first innings after Chanderpaul got to his double ton. The feat took him to a higher career score than that of his father, Shivnarine Chanderpaul, who had a best of 203 runs not out against South Africa in 2005. In his first match at Queens Sports Club, he also scored 200 runs more than his father who, in his only five-day match in Bulawayo, made just seven runs in an encounter the Windies won by an innings and 176 runs in July 2001. Speaking after the day’s play, West Indies all-rounder Jason Holder said: “I thought the guys played well and congrats to Tage (Chanderpual) on his maiden century. “Good to see him convert it to a double, and well played to the captain as well. Yeah it was a really good partnership. Good to see them not only lay down the foundation but also take it really deep. “I don’t want to talk about the team plan, we just need wickets. We need to be ruthless. Need to start well tomorrow (today), get a few early wickets and hopefully press them.” Despite Zimbabwe struggling to get wickets earlier on in the match, Mavuta recovered well and registered his best bowling figures in the longest format. He finished with figures of 5/140 and a maiden five wicket haul. His previous best figures were 4/21 on his Test debut against Bangladesh in 2018. Left arm spinner Wellington Masakadza gave Zimbabwe the breakthrough with the first wicket of Brathwaite. Kaia scored his maiden Test half century in a gallant fight back from the Chevrons. He finished day three on 59 runs (not out) while his opening partner, 23-year-old Makoni had the second best contribution with the bat for Zimbabwe (33 runs) before he was caught off the bowling of Alzarri Joseph. The pair put on 63 runs for the first wicket, after overcoming the early jitteriness. Chibhabha, who was also returning to cricket after a lengthy six-year period, was the second to go for a single digit score. Then Ervine fell to the last ball of the day, gone for 13 runs. “It’s an amazing feeling. Scoring a maiden half-century playing your first Test match. I am still hungry and hopefully I can get a big one here tomorrow. “They were trying to bowl full, wicket-to-wicket so I was just making sure I played tight. Basic stuff you know. Just enjoy. When he came in, he was nervous but I just told him to chill and enjoy the moment,” said Kaia. Mavuta, playing his first Test since 2018 said coming back to the side and picking up a fifer made a great feeling. “It has been great and I think I have been enjoying the process and I have been enjoying everything that I have been doing starting from first class cricket up until now so I am quite happy to be in this position now and trusting the process all the way,” he said. Having continued his domestic form to international cricket, Mavuta said he tries by all means to give his all for the team regardless which one it is. Zimbabwe will look to wipe out the deficit when the match heads into day four this morning.