The Herald Tadious Manyepo-Sports Reporter MOTORCYCLING racer Ricky Whyte is on cloud nine after hauling four individual accolades won in the 2022 season last weekend. The 18-year-old, who is son to one of the most iconic local Superbike riders, Shaun Whyte, was the biggest winner during the Motorsport Zimbabwe cocktail party and awards ceremony held in Harare last Saturday night. What made it even sweeter for the former Hellenic pupil is the fact that he pipped some of the best racers on the local circuit to the big one, the Champion of Champions award. Ricky Whyte was the national champion in the 125cc Class in motocross and he also claimed gold in the 600cc main circuit racing. He received the two prizes together with a top award as the Champion of Champions in motocross as well as the Champion of Champions overall trophy. The ecstatic Ricky told The Herald yesterday that the achievements will propel him to even fight harder going forward. “To be honest, I wasn’t really expecting it. I was surprised when I was named the Champion of Champions. You know, I am super excited. I am very happy for myself and the entire team,” said Ricky. “The road to these achievements was never rosy. I had to try, try and try, especially in road racing where I encountered bike problems during competition. “I am now eyeing to move to the international racing circuit and see what happens. I am aiming to maybe start in South Africa then grow step by step. I am hopeful the future is bright obviously spurred by these accolades.” Ricky saluted his father, Shaun, a former South Africa national Superbike champion. “I should salute my father for the training regime and everything. It’s for him and I know I will continue to make him proud as we go. “When I feel like tired, he gives me the strength and reason to continue. I will keep on putting the work as we go. I know I will have to continue working hard every day to keep this standard. I am challenging myself every minute to improve in every bit of my racing both for motocross and main circuit racing. “This year I will also upgrade to 600cc in the main circuit motorcycling racing and that means more work and excitement for me. “I would like to urge youngsters out there to join this sport. It is exciting and it also keeps them away from societal ills. It’s good for general fitness as well.”