The Herald Conrad Mupesa-Arts Reporter More often, success usually comes to those who are too busy looking for it regardless of age group and social status. This is the story of a 14-year-old Chinhoyi female poet who is living true to the adage, reaping benefits from her talent after receiving a residential stand from Chinhoyi Municipality. The Form One learner at Nemakonde High School, Sakile Manyonga, who started showcasing herself at the age of four, has also acquired a herd of cattle through her works. She has made a name in the town of Chinhoyi through her poetic prowess and talent. Sakile has since acquired what most people take a lifetime to achieve or what some die trying to obtain – a residential stand. In an interview, her elated mother, Ms Eunice Muchena, confirmed having taken delivery of stand papers, saying it was God’s will that her daughter became a force to reckon with so early in her life.  “She got the stand from the council after being noticed performing without fear of the public glare at State and public functions ever since she was around four,” she said. “Besides the stand, Sakile has six head of cattle which we bought using proceeds from the public performances. The herd once reached the eight mark, but at some point, we had to sell two to settle her fees requirements.” Sakile is now a proud owner of a 356 square-metre stand in Chinhoyi’s Rusununguko suburb. Ms Muchena said Sakile was a living testimony, considering the circumstances under which she was born. “Sakile was born at our rural homestead while I was home alone and had to cut the umbilical cord using a broken bottle of glass,” she said. Chinhoyi Municipality spokesperson, Mr Tich Mlauzi, said: “We have a policy as a council to honour those whom we deem would have made some unique contributions, but the decision has to be made by the full council. “Sakile was spotted at many public fora performing at a very tender age, hence the honour.” Makonde district education inspector, Mr Solomon Katoma said Sakile’s talent dovetailed with the competent-based curriculum that the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education introduced. “Parents should not think that their children can make a living by being academically gifted alone,” he said. “Co-curricular activities have the power to improve the lives of our children. It is evident from Sakile’s talent that the sky is the limit.” Sakile started her journey in Matoranjera, Makonde district, where she would walk nine kilometres to school before her talent took her to Sinoia Primary School where her fees were paid for by a well-wisher.