The Herald Grace Chingoma Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Dynamos and Black Rhinos forward Tawanda Macheke has switched clubs in South Africa after joining Moroka Swallows from Maritzburg United. The 26-year-old moved across the Limpopo last year in January when he was signed by The Team of Choice from the army side Black Rhinos. But the striker has found a new home in Johannesburg on a two-year contract. His manager Gibson Mahachi said the player has already undergone medicals and is waiting for his work permit. “We had an agreement with Maritzburg and we agreed to move the player. Tawanda has moved to Johannesburg and he is training with the club while waiting for his papers to be processed,” said Mahachi. Macheke joined Maritzburg United after a successful stint with Black Rhinos in which he won two club accolades – Player of the Year and the Golden Boot at the team’s awards gala for 2021. Before settling at Chauya Chipembere, Macheke had shown promise at Dynamos, after joining them from Midlands State University. He now joins compatriot Evans Rusike, who is already at Moroka Swallows. The former Warriors striker Rusike recently began to feature for the club following the lifting of the FIFA player transfer ban on Moroka Swallows. He was in action on Friday when Moroka Swallows beat Richards Bay 1-0. The two Zimbabweans are expected to form a partnership and help the club, which is currently in 14th position in the 16-team league, to safety. Rusike joined the Dube Birds last year in August but the club was handed a transfer ban before the Hwange striker was registered. Moroka Swallows were advised by FIFA that they could not register players for the next two years unless they made outstanding players to the Serbian duo Vladimir Mandic and Obren Cuckovic.  The European duo played for Swallows during the 2014/15 seasons, a campaign that ended with the Soweto club being relegated to the second tier. However, the club resolved the matter by settling the dues and the transfer ban was lifted. Meanwhile, Dynamos midfielder Denver Mukamba has put pen to paper and signed a one-year deal at the Glamour Boys. Ngezi Platinum has since issued their clearance letter to the new club. The 2012 Soccer Star of the Year was linked with a move to the club following his release from Ngezi Platinum. But his deal was also facing some resistance from some members of the club’s executive. The deal was finalised this weekend. Interestingly, the executive members who were opposed to the talented midfielder re-joining the club are some of the members that have been affected by the restructuring changes that were made early this week. DeMbare have parted ways with treasurer Moses Chikwariro and two committee members Tinashe Farawo and Francis Madzinga. 