The Herald LONDON. — Former captain Vincent Kompany says he is “very sceptical” of people “pointing fingers” at Manchester City after the club was charged by the English Premier League with breaking financial rules. The English Premier League football champions have been charged with 115 breaches of the competition’s financial rules following a four-year investigation. In a statement, City said they were “surprised” by the charges. “I look at it and sometimes roll my eyes a little bit,” Kompany said. “No doubt there’s a lot of righteousness in the world to come and tell you what you’ve done wrong, and then if everybody looks at themselves, I think the football industry in general is not one that can afford to point the finger too many times,” the Burnley manager added. “I think all of you will have a little bit of a smile on your face to know what the football industry is about. I’m very sceptical when people start pointing fingers. “Do the best for yourself and let’s try and improve all the time but I’m a little bit sceptical when the fingers get pointed easily.” Kompany won four English Premier League titles during an 11-year spell at Etihad Stadium from 2008 until 2019. The charges against City, who were taken over by the Abu Dhabi United Group in 2008, relate to a period between 2009 and 2018 – during which the club won all six of its English Premier League titles. The English Premier League has referred the club to an independent commission over alleged rule breaches, with possible punishments ranging from a fine and points deduction to expulsion from the league. City said in a statement: “The club welcomes the review of this matter by an independent commission, to impartially consider the comprehensive body of irrefutable evidence that exists in support of its position. “As such we look forward to this matter being put to rest once and for all.” Manchester City are expecting to be handed a small points deduction if they are found guilty of financial breaches, according to the latest reports. The champions were slapped with over 100 violations of Financial Fair Play (FFP) regulations on Monday, following a four-year investigation by the Premier League. It’s alleged that City have failed to provide accurate financial information in terms of club revenue, sponsorship revenue and operating costs over the course of nine seasons. The period in question covers the 2009/10 campaign up until the 2017/18 season, a spell in which City claimed the first three of their six Premier League titles. — BBC Sport.