The Herald AT the mention of the name Elizabeth, the late Queen of England comes to mind, remembering the English monarch. Interestingly, the same thought of Elizabeth relates to royalty when mentioned by the Zvishavane-based two-time Premier Netball League Champions, the Platinum Queens. Elizabeth Mushore is a living sweet story of one too many African girls with nothing to their names but a dream. Not born in royalty but taught that they can work hard to earn the title of royalty. In our world at Platinum Queens royalty is earned not given. Born to a loving couple, Beauty and Innocent, a teacher and a father working at a pharmacy respectively, the now 21-year-old Elizabeth Mushore had her early childhood in Shamva were she started playing netball. Although without much, it was a loving family for her. Finishing primary school, she proceeded to Seke One High School in Chitungwiza for Form One. The now 1.84 metres tall lady remembers vividly how she was easily noticeable being the tallest amongst the girls at her school then. She continued to play netball at secondary school level. At this point, she encountered her first challenge as a young talented netballer. She had made the Harare Provincial team in 2015 and had been selected to play in the National Youth Games that year in Victoria Falls but her parents, being protective, could not allow her to travel and play. Despite the setback, Elizabeth did not look back. That following year after the Victoria Falls heartbreak, she made it again into the Provincial team set to compete at the National Youth Games in Hwange. This time her parents allowed her to go. Her game improved day by day, catching the eye of scouts. As a result, she got a scholarship to learn at Pamushana High School in Bikita with the full blessing of her parents this time. “It was just one word for me. I said yes because that was my only opportunity and dream come true to be at a boarding school,” narrated Elizabeth with almost teary eyes. “I was in already in Form Three,” she added. In Form Four she had the opportunity to play in the COSASA Games in Namibia. Here she realised netball is not just a game, it is a career and source of income. At Pamushana High School, her invitation to Platinum Queens came at such a tender age. “Mr. Mlambo whom I can say is my mentor, helped me and I was called to sign my first professional contract with Platinum Queens,” explained Mushore. There she played for the junior team for a year before promotion to the senior team. On the other side of her progression, the academic side, she was doing well. She passed her Ordinary Level well and proceeded to Advanced Level which she also passed well. Currently she is studying Social Work at the Reformed Church University. Her first call up to the senior national team did not go well due to injury. The second call up, she sadly could not make it into the final selection. She continued to work hard. Finally on the third call up she made it into the final squad for the World Cup Qualifiers in South Africa. She was part of the team that ended up on third position at the Qualifiers, earning the Zimbabwe Gems a place at the 2023 Cape Town Netball World Cup. She returned home oozing with confidence and continued working hard. She made it again into the final squad for the Diamond Challenge tournament in Pretoria, South Africa. They played three games, and in Zimbabwe’s match against world giants Scotland, Elizabeth Mushore was named player of the match. Elizabeth revealed: “Platinum Queens has become my backbone. There are so many people contributing to my continued growth. “Sometimes I look back and reminisce how I have come from Shamva to the World Cup,” said Mushore. — Platinum Queens Media