The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter ZIMBIRU girls Under-20 rugby team head coach Takudzwa Ngirazi believes last week’s win over trailblazing FS Raiders will give them more confidence ahead of their clash with Harare Sports Club this afternoon in the Paramount Garments Harare Under-20 Rugby League at Old Hararians. The Domboshava-based side brewed a shocker when they defeated reigning champions FS Raiders 17-10 in one of the league’s surprise results. Ngirazi’s team recorded their first ever win over their bogey side and is hopeful that his girls will continue with the good performances. “It was a good game, winning against the Raiders for the first time in history. It was a good result for us although we did not play according to plan. “We went back and worked hard during the week and facing Harare Sports Club will be a good test for us. We are prepared and the girls are looking forward to the game which they know is a difficult one. “This fourth game of the season will give us an introspection of our preparedness as the league progresses. The team has been together for some time now and they are doing well. “All the players are ready as we have a clean bill of health. The game will be tough but we are ready for the challenge,” said Ngirazi. FS Raiders have hit a rough patch after they also lost to Old Georgians last week and coach Anthony “Chicken” Murare, whose side face Pitbulls, said they have worked on endurance and are expecting a better result this time around. “We are now taking this as a new game altogether after last week’s disappointing defeat and we worked hard during the week. We did not play well as the combinations and endurance let us down. We have respect for our opponents but we need to pick ourselves up and start winning games. “We have a young team with capable players who are willing to learn and I believe we are improving with each passing game,” said Murare. The highlight of the Paramount Garments Under-20 League round four games will definitely be the match between Harare Sports Club and Northern Chiefs. Fixtures Glenwood Stars v Southern City (9:00); Old Georgians Pitbulls v FS Raiders (10;00); Harare Sports Club v Zimbiru (10:30); Mabvuku v Marondera (11:00); XP Horns v Old Georgians (12:20); Pitbulls v FS Raiders (13:40); Zimbiru v Old Hararians (15:00); Harare Sports Club v Northern Chiefs (16:20). 