The Herald Rejoice Makoni Herald Correspondent Bernard Mizeki College scooped the first cash prize of US$2 000 in the high school choir competition that were organised by ZBC Classic 263 FM and sponsored by Scarlet Studios. The competitions held on Classic worship programme hosted by Rumbidzai Matinanga, popularly known as Rumbidzai AI, saw 10 schools competing. Voting was done through the ZBC Classic 263 FM’s voting application and number of views on the Scarlet Zim YouTube channel also contributed. At least 10 schools participated in the choir competitions, with only five making it to the final round, including Corner Stone College of Marondera, Zengeza 2 High School and St Marys High School. Other schools were Peterhouse Group of Schools and the winner Bernard Mizeki College. The cash prize was handed over to Bernard Mizeki College headmaster Mr Howard Matthews last Tuesday by Scarlet Studios officials and Classic 263 FM programming manager Mr Tafara Mature. Speaking at the handover ceremony at Bernard Mizeki College in Marondera, Mr Mature said the competitions were done to revive the high school choir competitions. “This is where we identify and grow talents as we seek to grow the music industry in Zimbabwe,” he said. Mr Mature thanked the sponsors who helped in making the competition a success. Rumbidzai AI said the choir competitions were done to promote and showcase high school choirs in Zimbabwe, a genre that seemed to have been given less attention from the media. Mr Matthews said they gave credit to the boys for adequately preparing and singing all by themselves with minimal supervision. “We thank ZBC Classic 263 and the sponsors for the prize as this will promote singing and we are lucky to be the first winners and to receive a very handy gift which the boys will decide how they are going to spend it,” he said. Ms Sophia Mafusire, teacher in charge of the choir, said she was grateful that the boys lived up to expectations. The competition ran from October 2022 to January 2023 and schools picked songs from the gospel chart show. The song that was their set piece was “Ndomutewera Muponesi” by Everton Mlalazi.