The Herald Ellina Mhlanga Senior Sports Reporter TRIATHLON Zimbabwe’s team to take part in the South Africa Youth Championships in two weeks’ time, yesterday had a chance to assess their preparedness when they took part in an event held at Mount Pleasant Pool. Zimbabwe are going to field athletes in the Under-13 boys and girls as well as the Under-15 boys at the championships due to take place on February 26 at Maselspoort. The national association took advantage of yesterday’s fun event to present the team and most of the members participated as part of their build-up for the upcoming assignment. The athletes had to earn points during the selection races that were held from the beginning of the season to qualify into the team. National team coach, Pamela Fulton, said they now need to maintain the work that has already been done ahead of the championships. “So a lot of them did shorter races than what they normally do. Had a bit of fun because every other race has been so much pressure just trying to get the time, trying to get top position. “I think there is a few of them, who are on the edge, having done so much school sport. A lot of them competed at Lomagundi on Friday afternoon in the cross-country, those little girls, some I have heard some of their results and incredible times. “So they are at that peak where they are doing really well. Now we just have to manage, so today I wanted them not to push too hard, to not push it over the top. “Now the time is to just try and encourage them and tell them you have done the hard work, now is the time to slow down a little bit in distance,” said Fulton. The team includes several new faces that will be competing at the championships for the first time. Stanley Chasakara said he is looking forward to the experience. “I want to try and do my best although it’s my first time. I know I will face strong competition but I am going to do my best in this. “After today’s event I need to work on my cycling a lot more because I am still new to cycling and I am trying to become faster at it. And also in my swim, I need to be more consistent with my pace,” said Chasakara. Matthew Hildebrand said it has not been easy but is looking forward to the competition in South Africa. “It’s been a little bit difficult because I have never been pushed this hard to qualify for something. But it has also have been interesting in what I have been learning and how I am going to employ that in my upcoming event,” said Hildebrand. The youth team will be joined by two juniors for this tour — Duwan Botha and Anje Van As — who are scheduled to compete in the 2023 Africa Triathlon Junior Cup Maselspoort. Fulton will be assisted by coach Marcel Paulser while Marlise Van As is the tour manager. Team Under-13 Girls Jamie Pringle (Hellenic Academy) Rachel O’donoghue (Chisipite School) Bianca Van De Linde (Core Academy) Olivia Beamish (Siloam Academy) Under-13 Boys Zander Botha (St Johns College) Matthew Hildebrand (Hellenic Academy) Aden Collett (Peterhouse Boys School) Under-15 Boys Rohnan Nicholson (St Johns College) Callum Smith (St Johns College) Zachary Summers (St Johns College) Stanley Chasakara (Eaglesvale School) Under-19 Men Duwan Botha (St Christopher’s School) Under-19 Women Anje Van As (Chisipite School)