The Herald Prosper Dembedza and Yeukai Karengezeka Two Harare men appeared at the Harare Magistrates Court yesterday on allegations of pointing a firearm and assaulting Lloyd Gwasira, also known as Madzibaba Moses, the leader and founder of Johane Masowe eChishanu Church. The duo, Elvis Borerwi and Tafadzwa Matoro, were represented by Mr Kingston Mukanganwi and Mr Kudakwashe Munyoro. They appeared before separate magistrates and were remanded in custody to today. Borerwi, who is facing assault charges, is expected to apply for bail today before magistrate Ms Noticia Shenje, while Matoro, who is facing charges of pointing a firearm at Gwasira, appeared before magistrate Tafadzwa Miti. While applying for bail, Matoro denied assaulting Gwasira, but said he was the one assaulted by his followers. Matoro further claimed Gwasira wanted to bewitch him as he found him giving sweets to his children. He was arrested at Warren Park police station where he wanted to report his alleged assault by Gwasira’s followers. Investigating Officer Lawrence Chademana testified and strongly opposed the granting of bail. Allegations are that Matoro and Borerwi are related, but they are not related to Gwasira, although they all come from the same rural area and they used to attend the same church. It is alleged that the incident took place on Tuesday at around 5am when Madzibaba Moses embarked on visiting various areas to conduct some house prayers for his church members in Highfield, Southerton, Lochinvar, Kambuzuma and Warren Park 1 in Harare. He was moving in a convoy of three vehicles with seven of his followers. It is alleged that as they were in Warren Park 1, they first went to Rodrick Madzima’s house and prayed. The address is three houses from Borerwi’s house, who is Matoro’s cousin. As Gwasira’s entourage was leaving Madzima’s house, they met Matoro who was driving his vehicle and they had an altercation. Matoro phoned Borerwi to join him.  Gwasira continued with his journey and visited another church member, Moreblessing Muriva. As they were leaving Muriva’s house, Matoro came driving his vehicle and signalled them to stop. Gwasira stopped his vehicle and Matoro started shouting at him and was joined by Borerwi, both accusing Gwasira of being a wizard causing Matoro’s downfall. Borerwi grabbed Gwasira and dragged him out of his vehicle and shoved him threatening to kill him. During the scuffle, Matoro then went to his vehicle and took his CZ Vzor pistol serial number 159230 which he corked and pointed at Gwasira. Gwasira’s followers swiftly reacted and disarmed Matoro. Gwasira went on to report the case at ZRP Warren Park and handed over Matoro’s pistol to the police. Investigations were carried out leading to the arrest of Matoro and Borerwi.