The Herald Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League teams Herentals and Simba Bhora are set to clash in the main match of the ZTN Prime Charity football tournament at Old Mutual Sports Club tomorrow. The practice match between the two sides will bring the curtain down on the fiesta which will see 12 social football clubs also battling it out for glory. Proceeds for the matches, all of which will be broadcast live on ZTN Prime (DStv Channel 294), will go towards helping Kapota School for the Blind. The Masvingo-based centre lost their principal and his deputy in a car accident in December.  Touched by the plight of those who had become used to survive from the efforts of the deceased, ZTN Prime decided to hold a football tournament.  Twelve social football teams will be grouped into two pools with the top two progressing to the semi-finals. The final game for the social teams will curtain-raise for the main match between Herentals and Simba Bhora. Zimpapers and Star FM are both scheduled to participate in this charity tournament with their “friendly rivalry” set to lighten up the event. The interesting part is that some of the players who traditionally play for Zimpapers FC have decided to represent Star FM and the conversations between the two camps over the past two days have been particularly interesting. Star FM is part of the Zimpapers Group but they decided to field a separate team in the tournament, thereby absorbing some of the players like former CAPS United captain David Sengu in their team. Zimpapers will be driven by such players like H-Metro sports reporter Bruce “Da 5-9”  Chikuni, who has had stints with Karoi United in the First Division, Curthworth “Katlego” Masango, Mathew “Thimbo” Masinge, Latwell “Lashers” Nyangu, Prosper “Proda” Dembedza and captain Tadious “Tah-D3” Manyepo. Tournament organiser, Rumbidzai Nderere, said fireworks were expected at tomorrow’s tournament. “Obviously, there are plots and sub-plots in this tournament, given the composition of the teams. “Star FM and Zimpapers FC are sister teams and they will be trying to outdo each other whether they have been paired in the same group or not. “We also have other teams like Proton, PanJap and Trek among others,” she said. “The proceeds from this tournament will be channelled towards charity and this is our first initiative to try and help Kapota School for the Blind in Masvingo. “I would like to thank everyone at Zimpapers Group for their support of this initiative.” Herentals and Simba Bhora, who are the invited guest teams, will put the icing on the cake as they fine-tune their squads ahead of the commencement of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season next month. Zimpapers have a visible footprint in charity initiatives and this football tournament is only one of them.