The Herald Tinashe Nyamushanya Harare Institute of Technology student Tadiwanashe Muteera, aged 19, has found his first love occupation as a theatre actor. Well, it is a real story of Tadiwa born on October 6, 2003, who grew up in Dangamvura, Mutare. Tadiwa is a very humble individual who loves positive vibes, a fun person, with his hobbies mostly being computer science research, socializing and computer games to mention just a few. “I am a first-year student studying Computer Science at Harare Institute of Technology. I have always been a man who has felt and known that I have the confidence to talk in public, and I have never dreaded audiences,” he said. “My self-assurance was further bolstered when I was given a prominent role to act in the play that was being rehearsed at the time and invited to join the theatre club at Kutama College.” Tadiwa said the same year, the team competed in the national drama contests, and came second place. “I kept shining in the theatre club up until Form 3, when I was elected club president. That further boosted my self-assurance and aided in my development of the leadership quality,” he said. “When I joined the St Augustine’s High debate club, where I did my Advanced level, I began working in the public speaking field. By the time I was in the upper sixth grade, I had become so skilled at debate and public speaking that I had been elected club president.” Tadiwa said when he first started performing skits his friends took the idea as a way to make money since they thought that if they became famous business personnel would hire them. Speaking about how he ended up in the theatre acting video he said; “The plan was, and still is, to make money so I wouldn’t always have to rely on my parents for financial support. “I wouldn’t really say I chose it. Theatre as for me is a passion and I balance my time so I am in it since I saw a talent in myself that I had not discovered.” Tadiwa said some of his skits mainly about real-life experiences include ‘how to make money’, ‘how to eradicate poverty’, ‘how to quit drugs’, ‘Zim mothers be like’, ‘that friend who over exaggerates’ among others. “There are young people who also want to produce or to be in the arts industry of their work, but may not know how to go about it, so I asked Tapiwa what his experience was on his video preparation and shooting process, clothes, right to the actual shoot and what challenges he faced if any,” he said. “Well, the main challenge with making videos online is content creation. It is quite difficult to look for what is happening around to make people comprehend and understand your concept through acting.” Tadiwa said he worked tirelessly and had to save some money in order to make it happen, together with his friends it became much easier because they all played a part. “The advice that I would give someone starting their own public career is that they should not be demotivated by people’s criticism but rather use it as motivation to develop their faults into strengths,” he said. “It is common for people to feel both fear and doubt when it comes to their great accomplishments, but confidence rather than fear is what distinguishes me.” Tadiwa said he aspires to be working in a significant ICT company in five years, earning money to support his growing skits business and completing his Master’s degree in cybersecurity. “Since the arts and entertainment industry is crowded, I stand out because I have the self-assurance to share intriguing content and acquire followers since I don’t hesitate to do anything as long as it is within my moral bounds,” he said. “I just started producing skits this year, so I am still developing my marketing plan, but for the time being I am using WhatsApp, Facebook, YouTube and Tik Tok.” Tadiwa said the most challenging aspect of this type of work was having to entertain or at least be interesting to many people, which is difficult given that everyone has different perspectives on everything. Tadiwa achieved the Youth Advocates Leadership Programme (YALEP) after advising his peers that if they are focused, nothing should be able to hold them back. He said his dream locally is to feature with “The Slick Pastor” or “Tinaboi” and at international level is to feature in any American or European movie sometime. Tadiwa denounced the notion that the arts industry at a tender age is for failures. “I don’t mind having a career in the arts while studying other things and as a man I want to leave a mark on the local and international arts scenes and that is my future dream,” he said.