The Herald Tadious Manyepo Youth Interactive Sports Reporter He is the only Zimbabwean footballer playing in the World’s best league-the English Premier League. At just 23, England-born Warriors midfielder Jordan Zemura is making waves in this elite competition. His club AFC Bournemouth is fighting to stay afloat as they have been hovering around the relegation zone 23 weeks into the EPL term. And Zemura is a key piece in that survival puzzle. He is almost always in the Starting 11 for the Cherries. Yet at one point, just four years ago, he seemed retired to fate as he was working as a glassfitter earning some modest salary. But he decided to stay grounded, shunning away from vice before he made a rebound and secured a contract at the Dorset club. “I just had to stay focused. I could have started abusing drugs but I knew I had the future ahead of me,” he said. “If anything those times taught me some crucial life lessons. No matter how hard life can be, always be yourself…” And that is the message he has always conveyed to Zimbabwean youths the majority of which have compromised their future for drug abuse and general societal ills. One of the youths clubs that he has inspired is Budiriro-based football academies, Super Eagles. The nursery is home to over 100 kids ranging from the age of eight. This is one of the badly affected high-density suburbs in Harare when it comes to drugs. And some parents, together with leaders of this flourishing projects have taken it upon themselves to fight societal ills using football. And they have always used Zemura’s words to inspire the kids. Super Eagles Academy coach Jerry Mutambarika said whenever they are addressing the youngsters, they first remind them of Zemura’s achievements having started from a humble background. That Zemura is now in direct contact with one of the parents and he is planning to host a tournament for them in winter has even worked wonders for the academy. “Of course, we point to a number of players who have made it big in the professional football circles who were nurtured at Super Eagles. “They include the likes of Juan Mutudza, Samson Choruwa and Eddie Mashiri among others. “But we always point to them a player who has risen from humble beginnings to a world star, Jordan Zemura,” said Mutambarika. “He is one inspirational figure we always use to encourage our youngsters to stay focused. “Zemura is humble and he is in touch with one of our parents and we are told he would be willing to come over and host a tournament for us. “This always keeps our youngsters focused. We are trying to fight the drug abuse scourge using football and we are happy, we are seeing the fruits.” This is an academy which has also helped some kids secure scholarships including Brian Karipi and Anashe Chingozi who are now at Guinea Fowl High School courtesy of FC Platinum’s interest in them. One of the parents, Beullah Mhembere, hailed the Super Eagles Academy’s initiative. “I have a son Passion who is under their wings. He is in Grade 7 and the pressure is massive. “But I cannot stop him from going for training because he has been nurtured there since he was seven years old. “He always speaks about the detrimental effects of using drugs and I am very happy he knows, thanks to the great teachings they receive at Super Eagles Academy,” said Mhembere. “I am told they are always reminded of Jordan Zemura who plays for Bournemouth in the EPL. “Actually my son always wants to watch him play and he says the Warriors man inspires him a lot. “My son has vastly improved even in his academics and last year he was named the best player at Glen View 5 Primary School and I know where all that is coming from.” Several parents echoed Mhembere’s sentiments. Meanwhile Zemura has saluted the support he continues to recieve from Zimbabweans in his team’s quest for survival. The Dorset club have already seen a change at the top with Scott Parker, who masterminded their promotion from the second-tier last year having already been replaced by Gary O’Neil due to poor results. Zemura has not been affected by the change and the Warriors star has retained his position in the squad that did themselves a huge favour last weekend when beating Wolves to move away from the red zone. It was a match that Zemura reasserted his prowess and showed he would be key to the club’s survival fight. Bournemouth sit on position 17 on the EPL log standings with 21 points to their name, just three above table anchors Southermpton after 23 match days. Zemura is a huge part of the Cherries’ survival series and the 23 year old can’t call for more motivation than receiving good wish messages from his countrymen. “I can only say, I am humbled and thank you,” said Zemura. “Look, this is a tough situation we are faced with in all our match days. We keep on pushing and the messages have been helping me a lot. “I think we picked a massive three points in our last match against Wolves and I would like to comment on my teammates for the spirited show. The result showed we are really in a fighting mode. “Recently we’ve missed out on these three points by fine margins but last weekend stepped up to the plate. We are happy to have picked those points and they will definitely help us on our quest to stay in this league.” Zemura said the EPL is the toughest league in the world but he believes the Cherries have what it takes to stay afloat. “The team has been hovering around the drop zone of course but I believe that we can stay up, it’s the toughest league in the world filled with so many talented teams, coaches and players. “So we have to continue to show why we are here and keep working hard but I have no doubt come the end of the season we will be in a good place. “We just have to keep sticking together believing in ourselves as a team and fighting for each other. That is what makes the difference. A team that will go to war with each other is massive.”Bournemouth play Manchester City at the Vitality Stadium this afternoon.