The Herald Takudzwa Chitsiga Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Golf Association yesterday launched a new golf tournament called Munhumutapa Strokeplay Championship, which gets underway later this month. The Championship will be played at Police Golf Club on February 25 and 26 with several top junior amateur players taking part for the World Golf Rankings points tournament. Speaking at the official launch,, ZGA president Martin Chikwana said in a statement read on his behalf they are glad that they have a new golf tournament on the local calendar. “We are very grateful to be launching Munhumutapa Strokeplay Championship which will be part of annual calendar. The tournament will be a 54-hole tournament that will incorporate junior and amateur golfers. “Munhumutapa Strokeplay Championship will have both boys and girls who will get an opportunity to get some rankings on the WGR. It is our hope that we have a solid foundation of the tournament and make sure that it continues for generations to come. “The tournament has been on the ZGA strategic plan blueprint for years and we are happy finally we will host it now. We are grateful to Police Golf Club for the support and allowing us a chance to host our maiden tournament at their course,” said Chikwana. Police Golf Club captain, Paterson Nyabadza, said they are pleased to be hosting the maiden Munhumutapa Strokeplay Championship. He said the event is a positive development for their club. “I am very happy that we have been chosen to host the first ever edition of the new golf tournament on our national golf calendar. The tournament is good for the players and the club as well. “The tournament will give access to upcoming golfers who are the future of the sport. The club is in good condition as we are managing to keep the fairways and greens in perfect condition. “We can safely say we are ready to host the national event,” said Nyabadza. Zimbabwe Ladies Golf Union vice-president, Olivia Nyamwanza, said they are happy to have some female golfers  taking part in the ZGA tournaments. She said the tournaments give them an opportunity to play in the world golf tournaments. “We are very excited to have some girls playing in these national tournaments as it gives them the competitive edge. We started with the Dugmore Trophy which was the first tournaments of the season and we are hopeful we are going to have more participants. “The response has been good this year; 12 players took part in the first tournament and we are expecting more as the season progresses,” said Nyamwanza. Meanwhile, the Mutupo/Isibongo golf tournament tees off this afternoon at Royal Harare with several players expected to take part. A total of 200 players have registered to take part in the 2023 season opener of the esteemed Mutupo/Isibongo golf tournament. Players set to take part are coming in from various provinces across the country. The tournament will run in a league format with each totem getting points from the top four players in each event. Mutupo/Isibongo is set to have 11 editions. The totems that will be represented in this edition include Nzou, Mhofu, Hwesa, Moyo, Shumba, Hungwe, Mukanya, Dziva, Mbizi and Gushungo among others. Shiri are the defending champions.